Wiki
A wiki (/?w?ki/ (About this soundlisten) WIK-ee) is a knowledge base website on which users collaboratively modify content and structure directly from the web browser. In a typical wiki, text is written using a simplified markup language and often edited with the help of a rich-text editor.[1]

A wiki is run using wiki software, otherwise known as a wiki engine. A wiki engine is a type of content management system, but it differs from most other such systems, including blog software, in that the content is created without any defined owner or leader, and wikis have little inherent structure, allowing structure to emerge according to the needs of the users.[2] There are dozens of different wiki engines in use, both standalone and part of other software, such as bug tracking systems. Some wiki engines are open source, whereas others are proprietary. Some permit control over different functions (levels of access); for example, editing rights may permit changing, adding, or removing material. Others may permit access without enforcing access control. Other rules may be imposed to organize content.

The online encyclopedia project Wikipedia is the most popular wiki-based website, and is one of the most widely viewed sites in the world, having been ranked in the top ten since 2007.[3] Wikipedia is not a single wiki but rather a collection of hundreds of wikis, with each one pertaining to a specific language. In addition to Wikipedia, there are tens of thousands of other wikis in use, both public and private, including wikis functioning as knowledge management resources, notetaking tools, community websites, and intranets. The English-language Wikipedia has the largest collection of articles; as of September 2016, it had over five million articles. Ward Cunningham, the developer of the first wiki software, WikiWikiWeb, originally described wiki as "the simplest online database that could possibly work".[4] "Wiki" (pronounced [?wiki][note 1]) is a Hawaiian word meaning "quick".[5][6][7]

Ward Cunningham and co-author Bo Leuf, in their book The Wiki Way: Quick Collaboration on the Web, described the essence of the Wiki concept as follows:[8]

A wiki invites all users¡ªnot just experts¡ªto edit any page or to create new pages within the wiki Web site, using only a standard "plain-vanilla" Web browser without any extra add-ons.
Wiki promotes meaningful topic associations between different pages by making page link creation intuitively easy and showing whether an intended target page exists or not.
A wiki is not a carefully crafted site created by experts and professional writers, and designed for casual visitors. Instead, it seeks to involve the typical visitor/user in an ongoing process of creation and collaboration that constantly changes the website landscape.
A wiki enables communities of editors and contributors to write documents collaboratively. All that people require to contribute is a computer, Internet access, a web browser, and a basic understanding of a simple markup language (e.g., HTML). A single page in a wiki website is referred to as a "wiki page", while the entire collection of pages, which are usually well-interconnected by hyperlinks, is "the wiki". A wiki is essentially a database for creating, browsing, and searching through information. A wiki allows non-linear, evolving, complex, and networked text, while also allowing for editor argument, debate, and interaction regarding the content and formatting.[9] A defining characteristic of wiki technology is the ease with which pages can be created and updated. Generally, there is no review by a moderator or gatekeeper before modifications are accepted and thus lead to changes on the website. Many wikis are open to alteration by the general public without requiring registration of user accounts. Many edits can be made in real-time and appear almost instantly online, but this feature facilitates abuse of the system. Private wiki servers require user authentication to edit pages, and sometimes even to read them. Maged N. Kamel Boulos, Cito Maramba, and Steve Wheeler write that the open wikis produce a process of Social Darwinism. "'Unfit' sentences and sections are ruthlessly culled, edited, and replaced if they are not considered 'fit', which hopefully results in the evolution of a higher quality and more relevant page. While such openness may invite 'vandalism' and the posting of untrue information, this same openness also makes it possible to rapidly correct or restore a 'quality' wiki page."[10]

Some wikis have an Edit button or link directly on the page being viewed, if the user has permission to edit the page. This can lead to a text-based editing page where participants can structure and format wiki pages with a simplified markup language, sometimes known as Wikitext, Wiki markup or Wikicode (it can also lead to a WYSIWYG editing page; see the paragraph after the table below). For example, starting lines of text with asterisks could create a bulleted list. The style and syntax of wikitexts can vary greatly among wiki implementations,[example needed] some of which also allow HTML tags.

Wikis have favoured plain-text editing, with fewer and simpler conventions than HTML, for indicating style and structure. Although limiting access to HTML and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) of wikis limits user ability to alter the structure and formatting of wiki content, there are some benefits. Limited access to CSS promotes consistency in the look and feel, and having JavaScript disabled prevents a user from implementing code that may limit other users' access.

Wikis can also make WYSIWYG editing available to users, usually by means of JavaScript control that translates graphically entered formatting instructions into the corresponding HTML tags or wikitext. In those implementations, the markup of a newly edited, marked-up version of the page is generated and submitted to the server transparently, shielding the user from this technical detail. An example of this is the VisualEditor on Wikipedia. WYSIWYG controls do not, however, always provide all of the features available in wikitext, and some users prefer not to use a WYSIWYG editor. Hence, many of these sites offer some means to edit the wikitext directly.

Some wikis keep a record of changes made to wiki pages; often, every version of the page is stored. This means that authors can revert to an older version of the page should it be necessary because a mistake has been made, such as the content accidentally being deleted or the page has been vandalized to include offensive or malicious text or other inappropriate content.

Many wiki implementations, such as MediaWiki, allow users to supply an edit summary when they edit a page. This is a short piece of text summarizing the changes they have made (e.g., "Corrected grammar," or "Fixed formatting in table."). It is not inserted into the article's main text, but is stored along with that revision of the page, allowing users to explain what has been done and why, similar to a log message when making changes in a revision-control system. This enables other users to see which changes have been made by whom and why, often in a list of summaries, dates and other short, relevant content, a list which is called a "log" or "history."

Within the text of most pages, there are usually a large number of hypertext links to other pages within the wiki. This form of non-linear navigation is more "native" to a wiki than structured/formalized navigation schemes. Users can also create any number of index or table-of-contents pages, with hierarchical categorization or whatever form of organization they like. These may be challenging to maintain "by hand", as multiple authors and users may create and delete pages in an ad hoc, unorganized manner. Wikis can provide one or more ways to categorize or tag pages to support the maintenance of such index pages. Some wikis, including the original, have a backlink feature, which displays all pages that link to a given page. It is also typically possible in a wiki to create links to pages that do not yet exist, as a way to invite others to share what they know about a subject new to the wiki. Wiki users can typically "tag" pages with categories or keywords, to make it easier for other users to find the article. For example, a user creating a new article on cold weather cycling might "tag" this page under the categories of commuting, winter sports and bicycling. This would make it easier for other users to find the article.

Links are created using a specific syntax, the so-called "link pattern". Originally, most wikis[citation needed] used CamelCase to name pages and create links. These are produced by capitalizing words in a phrase and removing the spaces between them (the word "CamelCase" is itself an example). While CamelCase makes linking easy, it also leads to links in a form that deviates from the standard spelling. To link to a page with a single-word title, one must abnormally capitalize one of the letters in the word (e.g. "WiKi" instead of "Wiki"). CamelCase-based wikis are instantly recognizable because they have many links with names such as "TableOfContents" and "BeginnerQuestions." It is possible for a wiki to render the visible anchor of such links "pretty" by reinserting spaces, and possibly also reverting to lower case. This reprocessing of the link to improve the readability of the anchor is, however, limited by the loss of capitalization information caused by CamelCase reversal. For example, "RichardWagner" should be rendered as "Richard Wagner", whereas "PopularMusic" should be rendered as "popular music". There is no easy way to determine which capital letters should remain capitalized. As a result, many wikis now have "free linking" using brackets, and some disable CamelCase by default.

Most wikis offer at least a title search, and sometimes a full-text search. The scalability of the search depends on whether the wiki engine uses a database. Some wikis, such as PmWiki, use flat files.[11] MediaWiki's first versions used flat files, but it was rewritten by Lee Daniel Crocker in the early 2000s (decade) to be a database application. Indexed database access is necessary for high speed searches on large wikis. Alternatively, external search engines such as Google Search can sometimes be used on wikis with limited searching functions in order to obtain more precise results.

WikiWikiWeb was the first wiki.[12] Ward Cunningham started developing WikiWikiWeb in Portland, Oregon, in 1994, and installed it on the Internet domain c2.com on March 25, 1995. It was named by Cunningham, who remembered a Honolulu International Airport counter employee telling him to take the "Wiki Wiki Shuttle" bus that runs between the airport's terminals. According to Cunningham, "I chose wiki-wiki as an alliterative substitute for 'quick' and thereby avoided naming this stuff quick-web."[13][14]

Cunningham was, in part, inspired by Apple Inc.'s HyperCard, which he had used. HyperCard, however, was single-user.[15] Apple had designed a system allowing users to create virtual "card stacks" supporting links among the various cards. Cunningham developed Vannevar Bush's ideas by allowing users to "comment on and change one another's text."[1][16] Cunningham says his goals were to link together people's experiences to create a new literature to document programming patterns, and to harness people's natural desire to talk and tell stories with a technology that would feel comfortable to those not used to "authoring".[15]

Wikipedia became the most famous wiki site, entering the top ten most popular websites in 2007. In the early 2000s (decade), wikis were increasingly adopted in enterprise as collaborative software. Common uses included project communication, intranets, and documentation, initially for technical users. Some companies use wikis as their only collaborative software and as a replacement for static intranets, and some schools and universities use wikis to enhance group learning. There may be greater use of wikis behind firewalls than on the public Internet. On March 15, 2007, the word wiki was listed in the online Oxford English Dictionary.[17]

In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the word "wiki" was used to refer to both user-editable websites and the software that powers them; the latter definition is still occasionally in use.[2] Wiki inventor Ward Cunningham wrote in 2014[18] that the word "wiki" should not be used to refer to a single website, but rather to a mass of user-editable pages and or sites, so that a single website is not "a wiki" but "an instance of wiki". He wrote that the concept of wiki federation, in which the same content can be hosted and edited in more than one location in a manner similar to distributed version control, meant that the concept of a single discrete "wiki" no longer made sense.[19]

Wiki software is a type of collaborative software that runs a wiki system, allowing web pages to be created and edited using a common web browser. It may be implemented as a series of scripts behind an existing web server, or as a standalone application server that runs on one or more web servers. The content is stored in a file system, and changes to the content are stored in a relational database management system. A commonly implemented software package is MediaWiki, which runs Wikipedia. Alternatively, personal wikis run as a standalone application on a single computer. WikidPad is an example. One application, TiddlyWiki, simply makes use of an even single local HTML file with JavaScript inside.

Wikis can also be created on a "wiki farm", where the server-side software is implemented by the wiki farm owner. PBwiki, Socialtext, and Wikia are popular examples of such services. Some wiki farms can also make private, password-protected wikis. Note that free wiki farms generally contain advertising on every page. For more information, see Comparison of wiki farms.

Wikis are generally designed with the philosophy of making it easy to correct mistakes, rather than making it difficult to make them. Thus, while wikis are very open, they provide a means to verify the validity of recent additions to the body of pages. The most prominent, on almost every wiki, is the "Recent Changes" page¡ªa specific list numbering recent edits, or a list of edits made within a given time frame.[20] Some wikis can filter the list to remove minor edits and edits made by automatic importing scripts ("bots").[21] From the change log, other functions are accessible in most wikis: the revision history shows previous page versions and the diff feature highlights the changes between two revisions. Using the revision history, an editor can view and restore a previous version of the article. This gives great power to the author to eliminate edits. The diff feature can be used to decide whether or not this is necessary. A regular wiki user can view the diff of an edit listed on the "Recent Changes" page and, if it is an unacceptable edit, consult the history, restoring a previous revision; this process is more or less streamlined, depending on the wiki software used.[22]

In case unacceptable edits are missed on the "recent changes" page, some wiki engines provide additional content control. It can be monitored to ensure that a page, or a set of pages, keeps its quality. A person willing to maintain pages will be warned of modifications to the pages, allowing him or her to verify the validity of new editions quickly. This can be seen as a very pro-author and anti-editor feature.[23] A watchlist is a common implementation of this. Some wikis also implement "patrolled revisions", in which editors with the requisite credentials can mark some edits as not vandalism. A "flagged revisions" system can prevent edits from going live until they have been reviewed.[24]

Critics of publicly editable wiki systems argue that these systems could be easily tampered with by malicious individuals ("vandals") or even by well-meaning but unskilled users who introduce errors into the content. While proponents argue that the community of users can catch malicious content and correct it.[1] Lars Aronsson, a data systems specialist, summarizes the controversy as follows: "Most people, when they first learn about the wiki concept, assume that a Web site that can be edited by anybody would soon be rendered useless by destructive input. It sounds like offering free spray cans next to a grey concrete wall. The only likely outcome would be ugly graffiti and simple tagging, and many artistic efforts would not be long lived. Still, it seems to work very well."[12] High editorial standards in medicine and health sciences articles, in which users typically use peer-reviewed journals or university textbooks as sources, have led to the idea of expert-moderated wikis.[26] Some wikis allow one to link to specific versions of articles, which has been useful to the scientific community, in that expert peer reviewers could analyse articles, improve them and provide links to the trusted version of that article.[27] Noveck points out that "participants are accredited by members of the wiki community, who have a vested interest in preserving the quality of the work product, on the basis of their ongoing participation." On controversial topics that have been subject to disruptive editing, a wiki author may restrict editing to registered users.[28]

The open philosophy of wiki ¨C allowing anyone to edit content ¨C does not ensure that every editor's intentions are well-mannered. For example, vandalism (changing wiki content to something offensive, adding nonsense, or deliberately adding incorrect information, such as hoax information) can be a major problem. On larger wiki sites, such as those run by the Wikimedia Foundation, vandalism can go unnoticed for some period of time. Wikis, because of their open nature, are susceptible to intentional disruption, known as "trolling". Wikis tend to take a soft-security approach to the problem of vandalism, making damage easy to undo rather than attempting to prevent damage. Larger wikis often employ sophisticated methods, such as bots that automatically identify and revert vandalism and JavaScript enhancements that show characters that have been added in each edit. In this way, vandalism can be limited to just "minor vandalism" or "sneaky vandalism", where the characters added/eliminated are so few that bots do not identify them and users do not pay much attention to them.[29][unreliable source] An example of a bot that reverts vandalism on Wikipedia is ClueBot NG. ClueBot NG can revert edits, often within minutes, if not seconds. The bot uses machine learning in lieu of heuristics.[30]

The amount of vandalism a wiki receives depends on how open the wiki is. For instance, some wikis allow unregistered users, identified by their IP addresses, to edit content, while others limit this function to just registered users. Most wikis allow anonymous editing without an account,[31] but give registered users additional editing functions; on most wikis, becoming a registered user is a short and simple process. Some wikis require an additional waiting period before gaining access to certain tools. For example, on the English Wikipedia, registered users can rename pages only if their account is at least four days old and has made at least ten edits. Other wikis such as the Portuguese Wikipedia use an editing requirement instead of a time requirement, granting extra tools after the user has made a certain number of edits to prove their trustworthiness and usefulness as an editor. Vandalism of Wikipedia is common (though policed and usually reverted) because it is extremely open, allowing anyone with a computer and Internet access to edit it, although this makes it grow rapidly. In contrast, Citizendium requires an editor's real name and short autobiography, affecting the growth of the wiki but sometimes helping stop vandalism.

Edit wars can also occur as users repetitively revert a page to the version they favor. In some cases, editors with opposing views of which content should appear or what formatting style should be used will change and re-change each other's edits. This results in the page being "unstable" from a general users' perspective, because each time a general user comes to the page, it may look different. Some wiki software allows an administrator to stop such edit wars by locking a page from further editing until a decision has been made on what version of the page would be most appropriate.[9] Some wikis are in a better position than others to control behavior due to governance structures existing outside the wiki. For instance, a college teacher can create incentives for students to behave themselves on a class wiki they administer by limiting editing to logged-in users and pointing out that all contributions can be traced back to the contributors. Bad behavior can then be dealt with in accordance with university policies.[11] The issue of wiki vandalism is debated. In some cases, when an editor deletes an entire article and replaces it with nonsense content, it may be a "test edit", made by the user as she or he is experimenting with the wiki system. Some editors may not realize that they have damaged the page, or if they do realize it, they may not know how to undo the mistake or restore the content.

Potential malware vector
Malware can also be a problem for wikis, as users can add links to sites hosting malicious code. For example, a German Wikipedia article about the Blaster Worm was edited to include a hyperlink to a malicious website. Users of vulnerable Microsoft Windows systems who followed the link would be infected.[9] A countermeasure is the use of software that prevents users from saving an edit that contains a link to a site listed on a blacklist of malware sites.[32]

The English Wikipedia has the largest user base among wikis on the World Wide Web[33] and ranks in the top 10 among all Web sites in terms of traffic.[34] Other large wikis include the WikiWikiWeb, Memory Alpha, Wikivoyage, and Susning.nu, a Swedish-language knowledge base. Medical and health-related wiki examples include Ganfyd, an online collaborative medical reference that is edited by medical professionals and invited non-medical experts.[10] Many wiki communities are private, particularly within enterprises. They are often used as internal documentation for in-house systems and applications. Some companies use wikis to allow customers to help produce software documentation.[35] A study of corporate wiki users found that they could be divided into "synthesizers" and "adders" of content. Synthesizers' frequency of contribution was affected more by their impact on other wiki users, while adders' contribution frequency was affected more by being able to accomplish their immediate work.[36] from a study of 1000s of wiki deployments, Jonathan Grudin concluded careful stakeholder analysis and education are crucial to successful wiki deployment.[37]

In 2005, the Gartner Group, noting the increasing popularity of wikis, estimated that they would become mainstream collaboration tools in at least 50% of companies by 2009.[38][needs update] Wikis can be used for project management.[39][40][unreliable source] Wikis have also been used in the academic community for sharing and dissemination of information across institutional and international boundaries.[41] In those settings, they have been found useful for collaboration on grant writing, strategic planning, departmental documentation, and committee work.[42] In the mid-2000s (decade), the increasing trend among industries toward collaboration was placing a heavier impetus upon educators to make students proficient in collaborative work, inspiring even greater interest in wikis being used in the classroom.[9]

Wikis have found some use within the legal profession, and within government. Examples include the Central Intelligence Agency's Intellipedia, designed to share and collect intelligence, dKospedia, which was used by the American Civil Liberties Union to assist with review of documents pertaining to internment of detainees in Guant¨¢namo Bay;[43] and the wiki of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, used to post court rules and allow practitioners to comment and ask questions. The United States Patent and Trademark Office operates Peer-to-Patent, a wiki to allow the public to collaborate on finding prior art relevant to examination of pending patent applications. Queens, New York has used a wiki to allow citizens to collaborate on the design and planning of a local park. Cornell Law School founded a wiki-based legal dictionary called Wex, whose growth has been hampered by restrictions on who can edit.[28]

In academic context, wiki has also been used as project collaboration and research support system.[44][45]

City wikis
A city wiki (or local wiki) is a wiki used as a knowledge base and social network for a specific geographical locale.[46][47][48] The term 'city wiki' or its foreign language equivalent (e.g. German 'Stadtwiki') is sometimes also used for wikis that cover not just a city, but a small town or an entire region. A city wiki contains information about specific instances of things, ideas, people and places. Much of this information might not be appropriate for encyclopedias such as Wikipedia (e.g., articles on every retail outlet in a town), but might be appropriate for a wiki with more localized content and viewers. A city wiki could also contain information about the following subjects, that may or may not be appropriate for a general knowledge wiki, such as:

Details of public establishments such as public houses, bars, accommodation or social centers
Owner name, opening hours and statistics for a specific shop
Statistical information about a specific road in a city
Flavors of ice cream served at a local ice cream parlor
A biography of a local mayor and other persons

File:Development of "Mathe f¨¹r Nicht-Freaks" from Sep 2009 to June 2016.webm
Visualization of the collaborative work in the German wiki project Mathe f¨¹r Nicht-Freaks
WikiNodes are pages on wikis that describe related wikis. They are usually organized as neighbors and delegates. A neighbor wiki is simply a wiki that may discuss similar content or may otherwise be of interest. A delegate wiki is a wiki that agrees to have certain content delegated to that wiki.[49] One way of finding a wiki on a specific subject is to follow the wiki-node network from wiki to wiki; another is to take a Wiki "bus tour", for example: Wikipedia's Tour Bus Stop.

Participants
The four basic types of users who participate in wikis are reader, author, wiki administrator and system administrator. The system administrator is responsible for installation and maintenance of the wiki engine and the container web server. The wiki administrator maintains wiki content and is provided additional functions pertaining to pages (e.g. page protection and deletion), and can adjust users' access rights by, for instance, blocking them from editing.[50]

Growth factors
A study of several hundred wikis showed that a relatively high number of administrators for a given content size is likely to reduce growth;[51] that access controls restricting editing to registered users tends to reduce growth; that a lack of such access controls tends to fuel new user registration; and that higher administration ratios (i.e. admins/user) have no significant effect on content or population growth.[52]

Active conferences and meetings about wiki-related topics include:

Atlassian Summit, an annual conference for users of Atlassian software, including Confluence.[53]
OpenSym (called WikiSym until 2014), an academic conference dedicated to research about wikis and open collaboration.
SMWCon, a bi-annual conference for users and developers of Semantic MediaWiki.[54]
TikiFest, a frequently held meeting for users and developers of Tiki Wiki CMS Groupware.[55]
Wikimania, an annual conference dedicated to the research and practice of Wikimedia Foundation projects like Wikipedia.
Former wiki-related events include:

RecentChangesCamp (2006¨C2012), an unconference on wiki-related topics.
RegioWikiCamp (2009¨C2013), a semi-annual unconference on "regiowikis", or wikis on cities and other geographic areas.[56]

Rules
Wikis typically have a set of rules governing user behavior. Wikipedia, for instance, has a labyrinthine set of policies and guidelines summed up in its five pillars: Wikipedia is an encyclopedia; Wikipedia has a neutral point of view; Wikipedia is free content; Wikipedians should interact in a respectful and civil manner; and Wikipedia does not have firm rules. Many wikis have adopted a set of commandments. For instance, Conservapedia commands, among other things, that its editors use "B.C." rather than "B.C.E." when referring to years prior to C.E. 1 and refrain from "unproductive activity."[57] One teacher instituted a commandment for a class wiki, "Wiki unto others as you would have them wiki unto you."[11]

Legal environment
Joint authorship of articles, in which different users participate in correcting, editing, and compiling the finished product, can also cause editors to become tenants in common of the copyright, making it impossible to republish without permission of all co-owners, some of whose identities may be unknown due to pseudonymous or anonymous editing.[9] Where persons contribute to a collective work such as an encyclopedia, there is, however, no joint ownership if the contributions are separate and distinguishable.[58] Despite most wikis' tracking of individual contributions, the action of contributing to a wiki page is still arguably one of jointly correcting, editing, or compiling, which would give rise to joint ownership. Some copyright issues can be alleviated through the use of an open content license. Version 2 of the GNU Free Documentation License includes a specific provision for wiki relicensing; Creative Commons licenses are also popular. When no license is specified, an implied license to read and add content to a wiki may be deemed to exist on the grounds of business necessity and the inherent nature of a wiki, although the legal basis for such an implied license may not exist in all circumstances.[citation needed]

Wikis and their users can be held liable for certain activities that occur on the wiki. If a wiki owner displays indifference and forgoes controls (such as banning copyright infringers) that he could have exercised to stop copyright infringement, he may be deemed to have authorized infringement, especially if the wiki is primarily used to infringe copyrights or obtains direct financial benefit, such as advertising revenue, from infringing activities.[9] In the United States, wikis may benefit from Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which protects sites that engage in "Good Samaritan" policing of harmful material, with no requirement on the quality or quantity of such self-policing.[59] It has also been argued, however, that a wiki's enforcement of certain rules, such as anti-bias, verifiability, reliable sourcing, and no-original-research policies, could pose legal risks.[60] When defamation occurs on a wiki, theoretically all users of the wiki can be held liable, because any of them had the ability to remove or amend the defamatory material from the "publication." It remains to be seen whether wikis will be regarded as more akin to an internet service provider, which is generally not held liable due to its lack of control over publications' contents, than a publisher.[9] It has been recommended that trademark owners monitor what information is presented about their trademarks on wikis, since courts may use such content as evidence pertaining to public perceptions. Joshua Jarvis notes, "Once misinformation is identified, the trade mark owner can simply edit the entry."[61]


Vladimir Karapetoff
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Vladimir Karapetoff (January 8, 1876 in Saint Petersburg, Russian Empire ¨C January 11, 1948) was a Russian-American electrical engineer, inventor, professor, and author.

Life
He was the son of Nikita Ivanovich Karapetov and Anna Joakimovna Karapetova. Karapetoff first studied at Petersburg State University of Means of Communication taking his first certification in 1897 and a second in 1902. During his studies he was a consultant to the Russian government and served as an instructor teaching electrical engineering and hydraulics in three of Saint Petersburg's colleges.[1]

In 1899, he went to the Technische Hochschule Darmstadt to study power systems, he wrote ¨¹ber Mehrphasige Stromsysteme in 1900.

In 1903 Karapetoff emigrated to the United States and apprenticed at Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. The following year he began his long association with Cornell University as professor of electrical engineering.

Karapetoff published the first part of his Engineering Applications of Higher Mathematics in 1911, and followed with parts two to five in 1916. That year he also published Electrical Measurements and Testing, Direct and Alternating Current.

The American Institute of Electrical Engineers made him a Fellow in 1912. He became a charter member of the American Association of University Professors in 1915. Karapetoff was a research editor for Electrical World from 1917 to 1926.

As a member of the Socialist Party of America, Karapetoff ran for the New York State Senate in 1910;[2] and for New York State Engineer and Surveyor in the State elections of 1914,[3] 1920 and 1924.

Karapetoff wrote several articles on special relativity to show that

much of the difficulty in understanding the subject lies in the popular effort to reconcile relativity with our every-day experience. Once this non-technical point of view, with its childish illustrations and analogs, has been abandoned, and the relativity space is considered mathematically per se, the treatment is not different from any other branch of mathematics. Certain postulates are made and a structure is built step by step on these, using mathematical logic and its recognized tools and operations.[4]
In the first three articles in the journal of the Optical Society of America, Karapetoff used the notion of a "velocity angle" ¦Á which expressed the relation of a velocity v to the speed of light by sin ¦Á = v/c. In the later articles he used instead the hyperbolic angle u called rapidity in relativity, and determined by tanh u = v/c. As explained in a footnote on page 73 of the 1936 article, when sin ¦Á = tanh u, one says that ¦Á is the Gudermannian angle of u, and u is the anti-Gudermannian of ¦Á. Thus he explains, "the present treatment is in terms of the anti-Gudermannian of the velocity angle previously used." The diagramatic treatments given by Karapetoff are frequently called Minkowski diagrams in physical science.

In 1928 the Franklin Institute awarded him the Elliott Cresson Medal. Karapetoff was an accomplished cellist, and in 1934 was awarded an honorary doctorate in music by the New York College of Music. On November 25, 1936, he married Rosalie Margaret Cobb at Dobbs Ferry, New York.[5] The Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute bestowed on him the degree of Doctor of Science in 1937. Karapetoff died in 1948, and is buried in Ithaca, Tompkins County, New York.[6]

In his honor, since 1992 Eta Kappa Nu has celebrated significant work of electrical engineers with the Vladimir Karapetoff Outstanding Technical Achievement Award.[7]

Articles
1924: "Aberration of light in terms of the theory of relativity as illustrated on a cone and a pyramid", Journal of the Optical Society of America 9(3):223¨C33.
1926: "Straight-line relativity in oblique coordinates; also illustrated by a mechanical model", Journal of the Optical Society of America 13:155.
1929: "Relativity transformation of an oscillation into a travelling wave, and DeBroglie's postulate in terms of velocity angle", Journal of the Optical Society of America 19:253.
1936: "Restricted relativity in terms of hyperbolic functions of rapidities", American Mathematical Monthly 43:70¨C82.
1941: "A general outline of restricted relativity", Scripta Mathematica 8:145¨C63.
1944: "The special theory of relativity in hyperbolic functions", Reviews of Modern Physics 16:33¨C52.
1945: "The constancy of the velocity of light", in A Collection of Papers in Memory of Sir William Rowan Hamiltion, Scripta Mathematica at Yeshiva College.


Amar Bahadur Thapa
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Amar Bahadur Thapa (Nepali: ??? ?????? ????) is a member of 2nd Nepalese Constituent Assembly. He won Dailekh¨C1 seat in Nepalese Constituent Assembly election, 2013 from Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist).[1][2]


Tina Bru
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Tina Bru
Tina Bru (2017-03-11 bilde01).jpg
Born	18 April 1986 (age 33)
Nationality	Norwegian
Occupation	Politician
Known for	Member of the Storting
Tina Bru (born 18 April 1986) is a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party. She was elected to the Storting from Rogaland in 2013 and became a member of the Standing Committee on Energy and the Environment.[1] She was reelected to the Storting for the period 2017¨C2021, and continued as a member of the Standing Committee on Energy and the Environment.[1]


Carrie Stroup
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Carrie Stroup
Carrie Stroup 2009.jpg
Carrie Stroup attending the 2010 SNI Swimsuit Calendar Launch Party at Wonderland, Hollywood, CA on October 23, 2009
Born	Carrie Ann Stroup
May 23, 1982 (age 36)
Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Title	Miss United States World 2001
Beauty pageant titleholder
Major
competition(s)	Miss World 2001
Carrie Ann Stroup (born May 23, 1982 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida) is an American fashion model, TV host and beauty pageant titleholder who was crowned Miss World America 2001 and represented her country in Miss World 2001 but unplaced.


Contents
1	Early life
2	Miss United States World
3	Life after Miss United States World
4	References
5	External links
Early life
The daughter of Joe and Debbie Stroup of Cashiers, North Carolina,[1] Stroup had previously held the title of Miss United States Teen in 1998.[2][not in citation given]

Miss United States World
A 2000 Smoky Mountain High School graduate, Stroup competed in Orlando, Florida for the title of Miss United States World in July 2001, capturing the crown and the right to participate in Miss World 2001.[1]

As the official representative of her country to the Miss World 2001 pageant held in Sun City, South Africa on November 16, she became a bookies' favorite[3] and competed against 93 delegates for the title eventually won by Agbani Darego of Nigeria.[3]

Life after Miss United States World
Stroup is a model featured in advertisements for PlayersOnly, an online gambling site, and a senior reporter at Gambling911.[citation needed] She also had a guest role in NBC's Scrubs.


Morrisville News and Citizen
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Morrisville News and Citizen
Type	Weekly Newspaper
Format	Broadsheet
Owner(s)	Stowe Today
Editor	Tom Kearney
Founded	1881
Headquarters	92 Lower Main St, Morrisville, VT 05661 United States
Circulation	13,500
ISSN	2376-8371
OCLC number	9572968
Website	https://www.stowetoday.com/news_and_citizen/

The Morrisville News and Citizen is a weekly newspaper with a circulation of 3,850 based in Morrisville in the U.S. state of Vermont. It covers Hyde Park, Lamoille, and Morrisville, Vermont.[1]


Contents
1	Early history
2	Recent history
3	Awards & recognition
3.1	Vermont Press Association
4	References
5	External links
Early history
In 1881 the News and Citizen was created when the Vermont Citizen (Morrisville, 1873 - 1881) and the Lamoille News (Hyde Park, 1877-1881) were combined.[2][3] L. Halsey Lewis (publisher until 1922) and Henry C. Fisk were responsible for the consolidation.

Arthur A. Twiss became owner, editor and manager of the News and Citizen (and the Lamoille Publishing Company) and after Lewis¡¯ retirement in 1922.[3]

Prior to this merge the Lamoille News had been created in 1877 by Orville S. Basford when the Lamoille Newsdealer's owner died and the subscriber list was purchased by the Vermont Citizen.[2] Thus ensued a three year competition between the two papers until they decided to consolidate in 1881.[2]

In 1942 Arthur B. Limoge purchased the News and Citizen and the paper has remained in the Limoge family since then.[2] Clyde Limoge (Arthur¡¯s son) became publisher in 1958, followed by Arthur¡¯s grandson Bradley in 1973.[2]

Recent history
Mickey Smith was editor of the paper from July 2015 until his death in early 2016. He had served as a reporter for 20+ years at the News and Citizen prior to his promotion.[4]

After Smith¡¯s death Tom Kearney became the editor of the paper.[5]

Awards & recognition
Vermont Press Association
Year	Award	Place	Recipient
2000[6]	Best sports writing (non-daily)	3rd	Mickey Smith
Best local story (non-daily)	1st	Amy Kolb Noyes
2007[7]	Editorial (daily & non-daily)	3rd	J. B. McKinley
Sports Writing (non-daily)	3rd	Mickey Smith
Best local story (non-daily)	3rd	Mickey Smith


Central African Forest Commission
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Central African Forest Commission" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (June 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The Central African Forest Commission (French: Commission des For¨ºts d'Afrique Centrale, or COMIFAC) is an intergovernmental organisation in Central Africa. Its goal is to manage the forests of Central Africa in a sustainable manner and is supported by the wildlife trade monitoring network TRAFFIC [1] The secretariat is based in Yaound¨¦, Cameroon.[2] Raymond Mbitikon serves as its Executive Secretary.[3]

Its four official languages are French, English, Spanish and Portuguese.


Contents
1	Member states
2	History
3	OFAC
4	See also
5	References
6	External links
Member states
The Central African Forest Commission's ten member states are:[4]

Burundi
Cameroon
Chad
Central African Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Equatorial Guinea
Gabon
Republic of the Congo
Rwanda
S?o Tom¨¦ and Pr¨ªncipe
History
COMIFAC was established in March 1999, through the "Declaration of Yaound¨¦".[3] In February 2005, the organization adopted a "Convergence Plan for improved management and conservation of forests in Central Africa."[3]

OFAC
Established in 2007, the Central African Forest Observatory (OFAC) is a specialized unit of the COMIFAC, which provides up-to-date and relevant data on the forests and ecosystems of the region, with the aim of informing policy-making and to promote better governance and sustainable management of natural resources.

See also
Congo Basin Forest Partnership
Dzanga-Sangha Special Reserve
Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa
Lob¨¦k¨¦ National Park
Nouabal¨¦-Ndoki National Park


Ghana at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Ghana at the
2013 World Aquatics Championships
Flag of Ghana.svg
Flag of Ghana
FINA code	GHA
National federation	Ghana Swimming Federation
in Barcelona, Spain
Competitors	3 in 1 sports
Medals	
Gold0Silver0Bronze0Total0
World Aquatics Championships appearances
2011201320152017
Ghana competed at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships in Barcelona, Spain from 19 July to 4 August 2013.

Swimming
Main article: Swimming at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships
Ghanaian swimmers achieved qualifying standards in the following events (up to a maximum of 2 swimmers in each event at the A-standard entry time, and 1 at the B-standard):[1][2]

Men
Athlete	Event	Heat	Semifinal	Final
Time	Rank	Time	Rank	Time	Rank
Kwaku Addo	50 m freestyle	25.47	70	Did not advance
Kwesi Jackson	100 m freestyle	1:01.25	79	Did not advance
Women
Athlete	Event	Heat	Semifinal	Final
Time	Rank	Time	Rank	Time	Rank
Ophelia Swayne	50 m freestyle	28.10	52	Did not advance
50 m butterfly	29.60	45	Did not advance


Pod¨§brady Castle
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Pod¨§brady Castle

View from the river
The Pod¨§brady Castle (Czech: Z¨¢mek Pod¨§brady) is a castle in the town of Pod¨§brady, in the Czech Republic.

History
A wooden Fortress originally stood at the site of the present castle. king Ottokar II of Bohemia replaced it by a stone castle, which became the seat of the Lordship of Pod¨§brady. King John of Bohemia pledged the Lordship and the Castle to Hynek of Lichtenburg in 1345. When in 1350, Hynek's daughter Elizabeth (Czech: Eliska z Lichtemburka married Bo?ek I of Pod¨§brady (d. 1373), the castle came into the possession of the Kun?t¨¢t family. After Emperor Charles IV gave Pod¨§brady to Bo?ek as a hereditary possession, Bo?ek called himself Bo?ek of Pod¨§brady, thereby founding the Pod¨§brady line of the Kun?t¨¢t family.

According to legend, King George of Pod¨§brady, Bo?ek's grandson, was born in the castle. After George's death in 1471, the Castle and Lordship of Pod¨§brady were inherited by his son, Henry the Younger of Pod¨§brady, whose heirs had to transfer ownership of both the castle and the lordship to King Vladislaus II of Bohemia and Hungary in 1495. Both were pledged several times before the loan was repaid by King Ferdinand I. They remained in the possession of the Bohemian Crown until 1839.

The castle was rebuilt several times. Between 1548 and 1580, it was reconstructed to a Renaissance style, after a design by Giovanni and Ulrico Aostalli and Hans Vienna. After the Thirty Years' War, the castle lost most of its importance. In 1723 and 1724, it was reconstructed in a Baroque style under the direction of the builder Franz Maximilian Kanka. Further modifications were made after 1750. Maria Theresa, in her capacity as Queen of Bohemia, stayed at the castle on several occasions. Under her son Joseph II, the castle was the residence of retired Imperial Army officers.

In 1839, the Crown sold the Castle and the Lordship to the Viennese banker Georg Simon Sina (1783¨C1856). Through marriage, the castle came into the possession of the Counts of Ypsilanti in 1884.


Margaret Stuart (athlete)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Margaret Stuart
Personal information
Nationality	New Zealand
Born	5 June 1934
Hastings, New Zealand
Died	10 September 1999 (aged 65)
Sport
Sport	Sprinting
Event(s)	100 metres
Margaret Fiona Stuart (later Wall, 5 June 1934 ¨C 10 September 1999) was a New Zealand sprinter. She competed in the women's 100 metres at the 1956 Summer Olympics.[1]


Franz Unger
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Franz Joseph Andreas Nicolaus Unger
Franz Unger.jpg
Franz Unger, lithograph by Josef Kriehuber
Born	30 November 1800
Leutschach, Austria
Died	13 February 1870 (aged 69)
Graz, Austria
Nationality	 Austria
Known for	paleontology
phytotomy
Scientific career
Institutions	University of Graz
University of Vienna
Charles University
Influenced	Gregor Mendel
Franz Joseph Andreas Nicolaus Unger (30 November 1800 in Gut Amthof near village Leutschach in Styria, Austria ¨C 13 February 1870 in Graz) was an Austrian botanist, paleontologist and plant physiologist.


Contents
1	Life and work
2	Works
3	Sources
4	External links
Life and work
Initially, Unger studied law at the University of Graz. In 1820 he moved to Vienna to study medicine, in 1822 he enrolled at the Charles University in Prague. In 1823 Unger returned to Vienna and completed his medical studies in 1827.

From 1827 Unger practiced as a doctor in Stockerau near Vienna, from 1830 as a court physician in Kitzb¨¹hel, Tyrol. In 1836 he was named professor of botany at the University of Graz and also taught at the Joanneum (which became the Universalmuseum Joanneum and the Graz University of Technology); in 1850 professor of plant physiology in Vienna. In 1852 he travelled to Northern Europe and to the Orient. Unger retired in 1866 and lived on his farm near Graz.

Unger was one of the major contributors to the field of paleontology, later turning to plant physiology and phytotomy. He hypothesized that (then unknown) combinations of simple elements inside a plant cell determine plant heredity and greatly influenced the experiments of his student Gregor Johann Mendel. Unger was a pioneer in documenting the relationships between soil and plants (1836).

Unger is notable for proposing a theory of evolution before Charles Darwin. Unger accepted the transmutation of species. During his time his ideas were widely criticized by those who held religious views.[1][2] In his book Attempt of a History of the Plant World (1852) he devoted a chapter to the evolution of plants.[3]

Works
¨¹ber den Einflu? des Bodens auf die Verteilung der Gew?chse. 1836.
¨¹ber den Bau und das Wachstum des Dikotyledonenstamms. 1840.
¨¹ber Kristallbildungen in den Pflanzenzellen. 1840.
Grundz¨¹ge der Anatomie und Physiologie der Pflanzen. 1846.
Anatomie und Physiologie der Pflanzen. 1855.
Grundlinien der Anatomie und Physiologie der Pflanzen. 1866.
Synopsis plan tarum fossilium. 1845.
Chloris protogaea, Beitr?ge zur Flora der Vorwelt. 1841-1847.
Genera et species plantarum fossilium. 1850.
Iconographia plantarum fossilium. 1852.
Sylloge plantarum fossilium. 1860.
Die Urwelt in ihren verschiedenen Bildungsperioden. 1851, 3rd edition 1864. (With some of the earliest drawings of prehistoric animals.)
Versuch einer Geschichte der Pflanzenwelt. 1852.
Geologie der europ?ischen Waldb?ume. 1870.
Wissenschaftliche Ergebnisse einer Reise in Griechenland und den Ionischen Inseln. 1862.
Die Insel Cypern. 1865.
Botanische Briefe. 1852.
Botanische Streifz¨¹ge auf dem Gebiet der Kulturgeschichte.
The standard author abbreviation Unger is used to indicate this person as the author when citing a botanical name.[4]
Sources
 Gliboff, Sander. (1998). Evolution, Revolution, and Reform in Vienna: Franz Unger's Ideas on Descent and Their Post-1848 Reception. Journal of the History of Biology 31: 179-209.
 Ruse, Michael; Travis, Joseph. (2009). Evolution: The First Four Billion Years. Belknap Press. p. 729. ISBN 978-0674062214
 Mayr, Ernst. (1982). The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance. Belknap Press. p. 390. ISBN 978-0674364462
 IPNI.  Unger.
"Dr. Franz Unger", Journal of Anthropology, Vol. 1, No. 2 (Oct., 1870), pp. 227¨C232. JSTOR link
German Wikipedia article lists several German language sources.


Oreodera granulipennis
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Oreodera granulipennis
Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Animalia
Phylum:	Arthropoda
Class:	Insecta
Order:	Coleoptera
Suborder:	Polyphaga
Family:	Cerambycidae
Genus:	Oreodera
Species:	O. granulipennis
Binomial name
Oreodera granulipennis
Zajciw, 1963
Oreodera granulipennis is a species of beetle in the family Cerambycidae. It was described by Zajciw in 1963.[1]


Skank (dance)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For other uses, see Skank (disambiguation).
Skanking is a form of dancing practiced in the ska, ska punk, hardcore punk, reggae, jump-up (a drum and bass subgenre) and other music scenes.

The dance style originated in the 1950s or 1960s at Jamaican dance halls, where ska music was played.[1] Ska music has a prominent backbeat played by the electric guitar on beats two and four of a 4/4 bar of music. When ska became popular amongst British mods and skinheads of the 1960s, these UK youth adopted these types of dances and altered them. The dancing style was revived during the 1970s and 1980s 2 Tone era, and has been adopted by some individuals in the hardcore punk subculture.

Types
Originally, skanking consisted of a ¡°running man¡± motion of the legs to the beat while alternating bent-elbow fist-punches, left and right.[1] Over time, variations emerged. The punk version features a sharp striking out look with the arms, and is sometimes used in moshing to knock around others doing the same. However, this is rarely seen as an act of true aggression but rather a consensual release of emotion.

This rough appearance tends to lead to negative stereotypes of violence, though they are rare at best and almost never tolerated by venue operators, bands, or other audience members. While the flailing, swinging, and pushing may appear dangerous, there is almost always a conscious effort by each dancer in the 'pit' to refrain from actually striking or hurting each other. Additionally, should any one person trip and fall, others in the group tend to avoid trampling them, or even help them to get back up.

The style, speed, and moves used when skanking are as diverse as the music it is performed to, usually dictated by its rhythm and genre. For example, the skanking done at a reggae concert would typically be slower and more restrained than the skanking done at a hardcore punk show. An example of this is the lighter style known as 'stroll' which has become popularized by American ska-punk bands, mainly Big D and the Kids Table. In this style, dancers tend to 'stroll' in a circle around the center 'pit' while rhythmically swaying from side to side with arms bent and marching in sync to the music.


Kamijo (musician)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Kamijo
Kamijo Versailles c.jpg
Kamijo performing with Versailles in 2010
Background information
Also known as	KAMIJO, SHOKI
Born	July 19, 1975 (age 43)
Hiratsuka, Kanagawa Prefecture
Origin	Kant¨­, Japan
Genres	
Symphonic power metal
Neoclassical metal
pop rock
Occupation(s)	
Singer-songwriter musician record producer actor model
Instruments	
Vocals guitar piano keyboards
Years active	1994¨Cpresent
Labels	
Applause Sony Music Japan Veletta Sherow Artist Society Chateau Agency Warner Music Japan
Associated acts	
Versailles Node of Scherzo New Sodmy Lareine
Website	Official website
Kamijo is a Japanese singer-songwriter, musician, and music producer.[1] He is best known as lead singer of the visual kei bands Lareine and Versailles. He has also been the head of two independent record labels; the first being Applause Records (formed in 2000), and currently Sherow Artist Society since 2006. His music covers many genres, Lareine having mainly a baroque pop style, and Versailles a clear symphonic and neoclassical metal sound.[2] He has an extensive discography with the bands Lareine, New Sodmy and Versailles, consisting of 15 albums, and a large amount of EPs and singles. In 2013, Kamijo began a solo career with his debut single "Louis ~Enketsu no La Vie en Rose~".[3][4]


Contents
1	Early life
2	Career
2.1	1994¨C2007: Lareine
2.2	2007¨C2012: Versailles
2.3	2013: Solo career
3	Discography
4	References
5	External links
Early life
Kamijo was raised in a family of musicians; his mother and grandmother were both piano players, and his grandfather a violinist.[citation needed] His first steps in rock were in the mid-1990s, when he worked as a roadie for the visual kei rock band Malice Mizer. He shared this job with Mayu, a guitarist with whom he formed the band Lareine.[1][5]

Career
1994¨C2007: Lareine
Main article: Lareine
In August 1994, Mayu and Kamijo (then using the names Maito and Shoki respectively) met for the first time while they were working as roadies for Malice Mizer. The same year, in November, they decided to form a band together, which they named Laliene ru cheri, commonly called just Laliene (named that way for the French Queen Marie Antoinette). Along with guitarist Sakuren and drummer Kyouka, they began to play. Later bass player Emiru entered the band, completing the first line-up.[6]

In March 1996, Laliene held a live concert for their first anniversary, where they changed the name of the band to Lareine. That same year they released their first recording "Saikai no Hana", distributed freely at the anniversary concert in a limited number of 100 copies. They signed with Sony in 1998 and released the songs Metamorphose, Fian?ailles, Fuyu Tokyo and Lillie Charlotte. After many years of releasing many albums, EPs and singles, during a short separation of the band, Kamijo created the band New Sodmy, and recorded two albums and five singles.[7] New Sodmy disbanded while Lareine was reformed in 2003 and started releasing new material.

In February 2007, Lareine finally came to its end, having played their last live on October 31, 2006.[7] The last recording of Lareine consists of 10 piano versions of their most popular songs.

2007¨C2012: Versailles
Main article: Versailles (band)
In March 2007, Kamijo and Hizaki (ex-Sulfuric Acid), and Jasmine You (ex-Jakura), formed the band Versailles. Later, Teru (ex-Aikaryu) and Yuki (ex-Sugar Trip), who were recommended by the Rock May Kan venue in Tokyo, joined the band. Hizaki, Jasmine You and Teru previously played together as part of Hizaki Grace Project.


Versailles performing in Santiago, Chile in 2010.
Kamijo and Hizaki created the concept of Versailles in the autumn of 2006 and spent six months gathering members to express it. Their band concept is "the absolute youshikibi (beauty of form) sound and extremes of aestheticism". On March 30, 2007 the details of the band were announced. They released promotional material through the internet, set up an English language page on MySpace, and had several interviews with foreign press. Versailles made their first appearance with a showcase on June 23, followed by their first performance on June 24. On these dates they also distributed their first single and DVD single, "The Revenant Choir".[8]

The band signed with the German CLJ Records label and released the EP Lyrical Sympathy on October 31, both in Japan and Europe. Their song "The Love From A Dead Orchestra" also appeared on a compilation album released by Sony BMG in Germany on November 9, called Tokyo Rock City.[8] On September 23, 2008, Kamijo modeled clothing for the brand Alice and the Pirates on the runway at Individual Fashion Expo IV.[9]

In January 2011, he and the rest of Versailles started starring in their own TV mini drama called Onegai Kanaete Versailles (¤ª¤Í¤¬¤¤¤«¤Ê¤¨¤Æ¥ô¥§¥ë¥µ¥¤¥æ, "Fulfill My Wish Versailles"). The show also starred Rina Koike and aired on Mainichi Broadcasting System and TV Kanagawa until March.[10] On December 20, 2012, Versailles gave their last concert and ceased all activities.[11] The band released four albums, one EP, eight singles, two live albums, ten music videos, one compilation albums and several DVDs.

2013: Solo career
In January 2013, Kamijo announced he would start a solo career, with his first release being the single "Louis ~Enketsu no La Vie en Rose~" on August 28.[12] While all the other members of Versailles later formed the band Jupiter with a new singer, and released their first album the same day as Kamijo's single.[13][14] The music video for Kamijo's single features Malice Mizer and Moi dix Mois leader Mana.[15]

Kamijo also sang backup on the 2013 debut album Heartstrings by Aisenshi, the new band of Eizo Sakamoto (Anthem) and She-Ja (Volcano).[16]

Discography
Solo
Singles

"Louis ~Enketsu no La Vie en Rose~" (Louis ¡«ÆFÑª¤Î¥é¥ô¥£¥¢¥ó¥í©`¥º¡«, August 28, 2013)
"Moulin Rouge" (June 18, 2014)
"Yamiyo no Lion" (éÒ¹¤Î¥é¥¤¥ª¥ó, July 16, 2014)
"Castrato" (¥«¥¹¥È¥é©`¥È, May 10, 2017)
"Mademoiselle" (September 27, 2017)
"Nosferatu" (January 16, 2018)
Albums

Symphony of the Vampire (March 5, 2014)
Heart (September 24, 2014)
20th Anniversary All Time Best ¡«Kakumei no Keifu¡« (20th Anniversary All Time Best ¡«¸ïÃü¤ÎÏµ×V¡«, June 10, 2015)
Royal Blood ¡ªRevival Best¡ª (July 15, 2015)
Sang (March 21, 2018)
Lareine
Main article: Lareine ¡ì Discography
New Sodmy
Confess to a Crime (2002)
Confess to a Love (2002)
Versailles
Main article: Versailles discography
Noble (2008)
Jubilee (2010)
Holy Grail (2011)
Versailles (2012)
Lineage (2017)


Oleksandr Artemenko
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Oleksandr Artemenko
Personal information
Full name	Oleksandr Petrovych Artemenko
Date of birth	19 January 1987 (age 32)
Place of birth	Chernyshove, Crimea Oblast, Ukrainian SSR
Height	1.81 m (5 ft 11 1?2 in)
Playing position	Forward
Youth career
2001?2004	UOR Simferopol
Senior career*
Years	Team	Apps	(Gls)
2005¨C2012	SC Tavriya Simferopol	4	(1)
2006¨C2007	¡ú FC Khimik Krasnoperekopsk	40	(1)
2009	¡ú FC Zakarpattia Uzhhorod	10	(0)
2010	¡ú Feniks-Illichovets Kalinine	11	(0)
2011	¡ú Bukovyna Chernivtsi	10	(2)
* Senior club appearances and goals counted for the domestic league only and correct as of 7 September 2013
Oleksandr Artemenko (Ukrainian: §°§Ý§Ö§Ü§ã§Ñ§ß§Õ§â §±§Ö§ä§â§à§Ó§Ú§é §¡§â§ä§Ö§Þ§Ö§ß§Ü§à; born 19 January 1987 in Chernyshove, Rozdolne Raion, Crimea Oblast, Ukrainian SSR) was a Ukrainian football forward for FC Bukovyna Chernivtsi on loan from Tavriya Simferopol in the Ukrainian Premier League. He is a product of the Crimean football system.


Maesteg railway station
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Maesteg National Rail
Maesteg railway station MMB 01 150208.jpg
Arriva Trains Wales 150208 stands at Maesteg with a service from Cheltenham Spa.
Location
Place	Maesteg
Local authority	Bridgend
Coordinates	51.6096¡ãN 3.6547¡ãWCoordinates: 51.6096¡ãN 3.6547¡ãW
Grid reference	SS855913
Operations
Station code	MST
Managed by	Transport for Wales Rail
Number of platforms	1
DfT category	F1
Live arrivals/departures, station information and onward connections
from National Rail Enquiries
Annual rail passenger usage*
2013/14	Increase 0.219 million
2014/15	Decrease 0.188 million
2015/16	Decrease 0.185 million
2016/17	Increase 0.191 million
2017/18	Increase 0.192 million
History
Key dates	Opened 1992
25 February 1864	Opened
1 July 1924	Name changed to Maesteg Castle Street
6 May 1968	Name changed to Maesteg
22 June 1970	Closed to public
14 July 1970	Last school train
28 September 1992	Reopened by British Rail
2008	Platform lengthened to accommodate 4 car trains.
National Rail ¨C UK railway stations
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
* Annual estimated passenger usage based on sales of tickets in stated financial year(s) which end or originate at Maesteg from Office of Rail and Road statistics. Methodology may vary year on year.
170433 at Edinburgh Waverley.JPG UK Railways portal
Maesteg railway station is one of two railway stations that serve the town of Maesteg in Wales. The British Rail 1992 built station is located in the centre of the town, adjacent to the Asda Supermarket store and on former sidings 8 1?4 miles (13.3 km) north of Bridgend.


Contents
1	History
2	Facilities
3	Services
4	References
5	External links
History
The station is now the terminus of the Maesteg Line from Cardiff via Bridgend. Previously the line continued northbound through the old Maesteg Castle Street railway station (first opened in 1861), which closed with the withdrawal of passenger services in July 1970. Mineral traffic had continued to several collieries in the areas until November 1985 (with the route remaining open past Llynfi North Junction as far north as Nantyffyllon to serve the NCB Maesteg Central Washery as well as the three pits) but the closure of the last remaining mine at St John's and the washery saw the line fall into disuse. The former station platforms and footbridge still exist, although the track has now been removed and there is heavy tree and plant growth at the location.

Facilities
The station is unstaffed and has a single platform with waiting shelter, CIS display, customer help point, timetable information board and self-service ticket machine next to the main entrance. The latter can be used for collecting pre-paid tickets as well as for purchasing tickets prior to travel. Level access is available between the car park and platform.[1]

Services
The general service pattern is one train per hour to Cardiff Central via Bridgend, with most trains extended to Cheltenham Spa via Newport, Chepstow, Lydney and Gloucester.[2]

Passenger services are operated by Transport for Wales.

There are two long-distance daily services to Maesteg. One of these starts at Chester, and the other runs from Holyhead.

The first train of the day is a through working to Ebbw Vale Town.

There is no Sunday service.

Preceding station	National Rail National Rail	Following station
Maesteg (Ewenny Road)	 	Transport for Wales
Maesteg Line
 	Terminus
Disused railways	
Nantyffyllon	 	Great Western Railway
Llynvi and Ogmore Railway	 	Garth


Champagne Stakes (Great Britain)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Champagne Stakes
Group 2 race
Location	Doncaster Racecourse
Doncaster, England
Inaugurated	1823
Race type	Flat / Thoroughbred
Sponsor	Howcroft Industrial Supplies
Website	Doncaster
Race information
Distance	7f 6y (1,414 metres)
Surface	Turf
Track	Straight
Qualification	Two-year-old
colts and geldings
Weight	9 st 0 lb
Penalties
3 lb for G1 / G2 winners
Purse	¡ê75,000 (2018)
1st: ¡ê42,532
Champagne Stakes
2018
Pink, grey sash	Pink, light blue cross belts and armlets, light blue and pink quartered cap	Dark blue
Too Darn Hot	Phoenix Of Spain	Cardini
Previous years
The Champagne Stakes is a Group 2 flat horse race in Great Britain open to two-year-old colts and geldings. It is run at Doncaster over a distance of 7 furlongs and 6 yards (1,414 metres), and it is scheduled to take place each year in September.


Contents
1	History
2	Records
3	Winners since 1974
4	Earlier winners
5	See also
6	References
History
The event was established in 1823, and it was originally open to horses of either gender. For a period it was contested over a mile, and it was shortened to 6 furlongs in 1870. It was extended to 7 furlongs in 1962, and restricted to male horses in 1988.

The Champagne Stakes is held during Doncaster's four-day St. Leger Festival, and it is currently run on the final day, the same day as the St Leger Stakes.

The leading horses from the race sometimes go on to compete in the following month's Dewhurst Stakes.

Records
Leading jockey (9 wins):

Bill Scott ¨C Swiss (1823), Memnon (1824), The Colonel (1827), Francesca (1831), Cotillon (1833), Jereed (1836), Don John (1837), Launcelot (1839), Attila (1841)
Leading trainer (10 wins):

John Scott ¨C Swiss (1823), The Colonel (1827), Jereed (1836), Don John (1837), Launcelot (1839), Attila (1841), Vindex (1852), The Bonnie Morn (1854), Prelude (1858), The Marquis (1861)
Mathew Dawson ¨C Zambezi (1864), Sunshine (1869), Camballo (1874), Farnese (1875), Lady Golightly (1876), Charibert (1878), Bal Gal (1880), Langwell (1884), Minting (1885), Ladas (1893)
Winners since 1974
Year	Winner	Jockey	Trainer	Time
1974	Giacometti	Tony Murray	Ryan Price	
1974	Grundy	Pat Eddery	Peter Walwyn	1:27.20
1975	Wollow	Gianfranco Dettori	Henry Cecil	1:27.70
1976	J. O. Tobin	Lester Piggott	Noel Murless	1:27.80
1977	Sexton Blake	Willie Carson	Barry Hills	1:26.70
1978	R. B. Chesne	Joe Mercer	Henry Cecil	1:28.30
1979	Final Straw	Paul Cook	Michael Stoute	
1980	Gielgud	Joe Mercer	Henry Cecil	1:28.90
1981	Achieved	Pat Eddery	Vincent O'Brien	1:27.10
1982	Gorytus	Willie Carson	Dick Hern	1:26.20
1983	Lear Fan	Tony Clark	Guy Harwood	1:28.16
1984	Young Runaway	Greville Starkey	Guy Harwood	1:28.80
1985	Sure Blade	Brent Thomson	Barry Hills	
1986	Don't Forget Me	Pat Eddery	Richard Hannon Sr.	1:25.06
1987	Warning	Pat Eddery	Guy Harwood	1:25.22
1988	Prince of Dance	Willie Carson	Neil Graham	1:26.50
1989	no race [a]			
1990	Bog Trotter	Nigel Day	William Haggas	1:26.88
1991	Rodrigo de Triano	Willie Carson	Peter Chapple-Hyam	1:26.55
1992	Petardia	Michael Hills	Geoff Wragg	1:25.86
1993	Unblest	George Duffield	James Fanshawe	1:28.36
1994	Sri Pekan	Michael Kinane	Paul Cole	1:27.22
1995	Alhaarth	Willie Carson	Dick Hern	1:31.57
1996	Bahhare	Willie Carson	John Dunlop	1:23.21
1997	Daggers Drawn	Kieren Fallon	Henry Cecil	1:26.92
1998	Auction House	Michael Hills	Barry Hills	1:26.08
1999	Distant Music	Michael Hills	Barry Hills	1:24.16
2000	Noverre	Frankie Dettori	David Loder	1:25.67
2001	Dubai Destination	Frankie Dettori	David Loder	1:26.45
2002	Almushahar	Frankie Dettori	David Loder	1:24.15
2003	Lucky Story	Darryll Holland	Mark Johnston	1:27.92
2004	Etlaala	Richard Hills	Barry Hills	1:23.33
2005
(dh)	Close to You
Silent Times	John Egan
Jamie Spencer	Terry Mills
Eoghan O'Neill	1:26.62
2006	Vital Equine [b]	Richard Mullen	Eoghan O'Neill	1:23.29
2007	McCartney	Ryan Moore	Mark Johnston	1:25.04
2008	Westphalia [c]	Johnny Murtagh	Aidan O'Brien	1:28.52
2009	Poet's Voice	Frankie Dettori	Saeed bin Suroor	1:24.91
2010	Saamidd	Frankie Dettori	Saeed bin Suroor	1:26.32
2011	Trumpet Major	Richard Hughes	Richard Hannon Sr.	1:25.86
2012	Toronado	Richard Hughes	Richard Hannon Sr.	1:24.88
2013	Outstrip	Mickael Barzalona	Charlie Appleby	1:26.90
2014	Estidhkaar	Paul Hanagan	Richard Hannon Jr.	1:24.18
2015	Emotionless	William Buick	Charlie Appleby	1:27.49
2016	Rivet	Andrea Atzeni	William Haggas	1:26.63
2017	Seahenge	Donnacha O'Brien	Aidan O'Brien	1:25.78
2018	Too Darn Hot	Frankie Dettori	John Gosden	1:23.92
a The 1989 race was abandoned because of subsidence. 
b The 2006 running took place at York. 
c The 2008 winner Westphalia was later exported to Hong Kong and renamed Super Pistachio.

Earlier winners
1823: Swiss
1824: Memnon
1825: King Catton
1826: Moonshine
1827: The Colonel
1828: Cant
1829: Bud
1830: Frederica
1831: Francesca
1832: Muley Moloch
1833: Cotillon
1834: Coriolanus
1835: Beeswing
1836: Jereed
1837: Don John
1838: Eliza
1839: Launcelot
1840: Kedge
1841: Attila
1842: A British Yeoman
1843: The Cure
1844: Lancashire Witch
1845: Princess Alice
1846: Van Tromp
1847: Assault
1848: The Flying Dutchman
1849: The Italian
1850: Aphrodite
1851: Augur
1852: Vindex
1853: Champagne
1854: The Bonnie Morn
1855: Ellington
1856: Tasmania
1857: Gildermire
1858: Prelude
1859: King of Diamonds
1860: Walloon
1861: The Marquis
1862: Lord Clifden
1863: Ely
1864: Zambezi
1865: Redan 1
1866: Achievement
1867: Virtue 2
1868: Morna
1869: Sunshine
1870: King of the Forest
1871: Cremorne
1872: Kaiser
1873: Napoleon III
1874: Camballo
1875: Farnese
1876: Lady Golightly
1877: Clementine
1878: Charibert
1879: Evasion
1880: Bal Gal
1881: Kermesse
1882: Hauteur
1883: Superba
1884: Langwell
1885: Minting
1886: Grandison / Panzerschiff 3
1887: Ayrshire
1888: Chittabob
1889: Riviera
1890: Haute Sa?ne
1891: La Fleche
1892: The Prize
1893: Ladas
1894: Solaro
1895: Omladina
1896: Velasquez
1897: Ayah
1898: Mark For'ard
1899: Democrat
1900: Orchid
1901: Game Chick
1902: Rock Sand
1903: Pretty Polly
1904: Galangal / Verdiana 3
1905: Achilles
1906: Slieve Gallion
1907: Lesbia
1908: Duke Michael
1909: Neil Gow
1910: Pietri
1911: White Star
1912: Craganour
1913: The Tetrarch
1914: Redfern
1915¨C18: no race
1919: Tetratema
1920: Lemonora
1921: Golden Corn
1922: Drake
1923: Mumtaz Mahal
1924: Bucellas
1925: Coronach
1926: Damon
1927: Fairway
1928: Arabella
1929: Fair Diana
1930: Portlaw
1931: Orwell
1932: Myrobella
1933: Blazonry
1934: Kingsem
1935: Mahmoud
1936: Foray
1937: Portmarnock
1938: Panorama
1939¨C40: no race
1941: Big Game 4
1942¨C45: no race
1946: Petition
1947: My Babu
1948: Abernant
1949: Palestine
1950: Big Dipper
1951: Orgoglio
1952: Bebe Grande
1953: Darius
1954: Our Babu
1955: Rustam
1956: Eudaemon
1957: Kelly
1958: Be Careful
1959: Paddy's Sister
1960: Ambergris
1961: Clear Sound
1962: King of Babylon
1963: Tallahassee
1964: Hardicanute
1965: Celtic Song
1966: Bold Lad
1967: Cheb's Lad
1968: Ribofilio
1969: Saintly Song
1970: Breeder's Dream
1971: Crowned Prince
1972: Otha
1 The 1865 race was a dead heat, but Redan was awarded victory after Lord Lyon's owner declined to take part in a run-off.
2 Blue Gown finished first in 1867, but he was disqualified for carrying an undeclared weight.
3 The 1886 and 1904 races were dead-heats and have joint winners.
4 The 1941 edition took place at Newbury.


Men's rights movement
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Rights
Theoretical distinctions
Claim rights and liberty rights
Individual and group rights
Natural and legal rights
Negative and positive rights
Human rights
Civil and political
Economic, social and cultural
Three generations
Rights by beneficiary
AnimalsAuthorsChildrenConsumersCreditorsEldersFathersFetusesGun ownersHumansNativesIntersexKingsLGBTMenMinoritiesMothersPatientsPlantsPrisonersSelf defenseStudentsVictimsWomenWorkersYouthDisabled persons
Other groups of rights
Civil libertiesDigitalLinguisticPropertyReproductiveSelf-determination of peopleWater and sanitation
vte
Not to be confused with the pro-feminist Men's liberation movement.
Part of a series on
Masculism
Men Boys Masculinity Father
Movements[hide]
Men's movement
Mythopoetic men's movement
Men's liberation movement
Men's rights movement
Fathers' rights movement
Egalitarianism
Intactivism
Meninism
Topics and issues[show]
By country[show]
Notable persons[show]
Lists and categories[show]
See also[show]
vte
The men's rights movement (MRM) is a part of the larger men's movement. It branched off from the men's liberation movement in the early 1970s. The men's rights movement is made up of a variety of groups and individuals who focus on numerous social issues (including family law, parenting, reproduction, domestic violence against men and opposition to circumcision) and government services (including education, compulsory military service, social safety nets, and health policies), which men's rights advocates say discriminate against men.

Some scholars have described the men's rights movement or parts of the movement as a backlash against feminism.[1]

Claims and activities associated with the men's rights movement have been criticized and labeled hateful and violent.[2][3] In 2018, the Southern Poverty Law Center categorized some men's rights groups as being part of a hate ideology under the umbrella of patriarchy and male supremacy.[4][5] The movement and sectors of the movement have been described as misogynistic,[6][7] and the perceived disadvantage some men feel is argued as often being due to loss of entitlement and privilege.[8]


Contents
1	History
1.1	Forerunners
1.2	Movement
1.3	Relation to feminism
2	Issues
2.1	Adoption
2.2	Anti-dowry laws
2.3	Child custody
2.4	Circumcision
2.5	Criminal justice
2.6	Divorce
2.7	Domestic violence
2.8	Education
2.9	Female privilege
2.10	Governmental structures
2.11	Health
2.12	Homelessness
2.13	Incarceration
2.14	Military conscription
2.15	Paternity fraud
2.16	Rape
2.17	Reproductive rights
2.18	Social security and insurance
2.19	Suicide
3	Criticism
4	See also
5	Footnotes
6	References
7	Further reading
8	External links
History
Forerunners
The term "men's rights" was used at least as early as February 1856 when it appeared in Putnam's Magazine.[9]

Three loosely connected men's rights organizations formed in Austria in the interwar period. The League for Men's Rights was founded in 1926 with the goal of "combatting all excesses of women's emancipation".[10][11][12][13] In 1927, the Justitia League for Family Law Reform and the Aequitas World's League for the Rights of Men split from the League of Men's Rights.[10][11] The three men's rights groups opposed women's entry into the labor market and what they saw as the corrosive influence of the women's movement on social and legal institutions. They criticized marriage and family laws, especially the requirement to pay spousal and child support to former wives and illegitimate children, and supported the use of blood tests to determine paternity.[10][11] Justitia and Aequitas issued their own short-lived journals Men's Rightists Newspaper and Self-Defense where they expressed their views that were heavily influenced by the works of Heinrich Schurtz, Otto Weininger, and J?rg Lanz von Liebenfels. The organizations ceased to exist before 1939.[10][11]

Movement

Author Warren Farrell
The modern men's rights movement emerged from the men's liberation movement, which appeared in the first half of the 1970s when scholars began to study feminist ideas and politics.[14][15] The men's liberation movement acknowledged men's institutionalized power while critically examining the consequences of hegemonic masculinity.[14] In the late 1970s, the men's liberation movement split into two separate strands with opposing views: the pro-feminist men's movement and the anti-feminist men's rights movement.[14] Men's rights activists have rejected feminist principles and focused on areas in which they believe men are disadvantaged, oppressed, or discriminated against.[14][15][16] Masculinities studies scholar Michael Kimmel notes that their critiques of gender roles "morphed into a celebration of all things masculine and a near infatuation with the traditional masculine role itself."[17]

In the 1980s and 1990s, men's rights activists opposed societal changes sought by feminists and defended the patriarchal gender order in the family, schools and the workplace.[18] Some men's rights activists view men as an oppressed group[19][20][21][22] and believe that society and men have been "feminized" by the women's movement.[19][23] Sarah Maddison, an Australian author, has said that Warren Farrell and Herb Goldberg "argue that, for most men, power is an illusion, and that women are the true power holders in society through their roles as the primary carers and nurturers of children".[19]

One of the first major men's rights organizations was the Coalition of American Divorce Reform Elements, founded by Richard Doyle in 1971, from which the Men's Rights Association spun off in 1973.[15][24] Free Men Inc. was founded in 1977 in Columbia, Maryland, spawning several chapters over the following years, which eventually merged to form the National Coalition of Free Men[25] (now known as the National Coalition for Men). Men's Rights, Inc. was also formed in 1977.[26][25] Fathers and Families was formed in 1994.[27] In the United Kingdom, a men's rights group calling itself the UK Men's Movement began to organize in the early 1990s.[28] The Save Indian Family Foundation (SIFF) was founded in 2005, and in 2010 claimed to have over 30,000 members.[29][30][31]


Protest in New Delhi for men's rights organized by the Save Indian Family Foundation.
Men's rights groups have formed in some European countries during periods of shifts toward conservatism and policies supporting patriarchal family and gender relations.[32] In the United States, the men's rights movement has ideological ties to neoconservatism.[33][34] Men's rights activists have received lobbying support from conservative organizations[35] and their arguments have been covered extensively in neoconservative media.[36]

The men's rights movement has become more vocal and more organized since the development of the internet.[37][38] The manosphere emerged and men's rights websites and forums have proliferated on the internet.[37] Activists mostly organize online.[39][40] The most popular men's rights site is A Voice for Men.[41] Other sites dedicated to men's rights issues are the Fathers Rights Foundation, MGTOW (Men Going Their Own Way), and subreddits like /r/MensRights.[42][43][44] Men's rights proponents often use the red pill and blue pill metaphor from a scene in The Matrix to identify each other online and in reference to the moment they came to believe that men are oppressed.[39][41][42] There tends to be much hostility between the different subgroups. Critics say that r/TheRedpill is a subreddit dedicated to men's rights.[39][41] However, others from within the subreddit claim they focus on personal and interpersonal improvement.[45] Some critics, outside the subreddit, say r/TheRedPill does not really care for the men¡¯s rights movement and that MGTOW (Men Going Their Own Way) are men who have no patience for either /r/TheRedPill or men's rights.[46]

Fringe political parties focusing on men's rights have been formed including, but not limited to, the Australian Non-Custodial Parents Party (Equal Parenting),[47] the Israeli Man's Rights in the Family Party,[48][49][50] and the Justice for Men and Boys party in the UK.

Most men's rights activists in the United States are white, middle-class, heterosexual men.[40][51][52][53] Prominent advocates include Warren Farrell,[19] Herb Goldberg,[19] Richard Doyle,[54] and Asa Baber.[55][56] Several women have emerged as leading voices of the MRM, including Helen Smith, Christina Hoff Sommers[57] and Erin Pizzey.[58]

Relation to feminism
Many scholars consider the men's rights movement a backlash[1] or countermovement[59] to feminism. Bob Lingard and Peter Douglas suggest that the conservative wing of the men's rights movement, rather than the men's rights position in general, is an antifeminist backlash.[60] Masculinities scholar Jonathan A. Allan described the men's rights movement as a reactionary movement that is defined by its opposition to women and feminism but has not yet formulated its own theories and methodologies outside of antifeminism.[61] Scholar Michael Messner notes that the early men's rights movement "appropriates the symmetrical language of sex roles" first used by feminists, which implies a false balance of institutional power between men and women.[62]

The men's rights movement generally incorporates points of view that reject feminist and profeminist ideas.[63] Men's rights activists have said that they believe feminism has radicalized its objective and harmed men.[14][19][52][64] They believe that rights have been taken away from men and that men are victims of feminism and 'feminizing' influences in society.[61] They dispute that men as a group have institutional power and privilege[65][63] and believe that men are victimized and disadvantaged relative to women.[66][67][14][68] Men's rights groups generally reject the notion that feminism is interested in men's problems,[63] and some men's rights activists have viewed the women's movement as a plot to deliberately conceal discrimination against men and promote gynocentrism.[14][69][70]

Issues
Men's rights proponents are concerned with a wide variety of matters, some of which have spawned their own groups or movements, such as the fathers' rights movement, concerned specifically with divorce and child custody issues.[71] Some, if not all, men's rights issues stem from gender roles and, according to sociologist Allan Johnson, patriarchy.[72]

Adoption
Men's rights activists seek to expand the rights of unwed fathers in case of their child's adoption.[73][74] Warren Farrell argues that in failing to inform the father of a pregnancy, an expectant mother deprives an adopted child of a relationship with the biological father. He proposes that women be legally required to make every reasonable effort to notify the father of her pregnancy within four to five days.[74] In response, philosopher James P. Sterba agrees that, for moral reasons, a woman should inform the father of the pregnancy and adoption, but this should not be imposed as a legal requirement as it might result in undue pressure, for example, to have an abortion.[75]

Anti-dowry laws
Men's rights organizations such as Save Indian Family Foundation (SIFF) say that women misuse legislation meant to protect them from dowry death and bride burnings.[76] SIFF is a men's rights organization in India that focuses on abuse of anti-dowry laws against men.[77] SIFF has campaigned to abolish Section 498A[78] of the Indian Penal Code, which penalizes cruelty by husbands (and the husband's family) in pursuit of dowry or for driving a wife to suicide.[79][80] SIFF states anti-dowry laws are regularly being abused to settle petty disputes in marriage[81] and that they regularly receive calls from many men who allege their wives have used false dowry claims to imprison them.[82]

Child custody
See also: Fathers' rights movement

Two protestors from UK-based fathers' rights group Fathers 4 Justice protesting in Peterborough in 2010.
Family law is an area of deep concern among men's rights groups. Men's rights adherents argue that the legal system and family courts discriminate against men, especially in regards to child custody after divorce.[83][84][85] They believe that men do not have the same contact rights or equitable shared parenting rights as their ex-spouse and use statistics on custody awards as evidence of judicial bias against men.[86] Men's rights advocates seek to change the legal climate for men through changes in family law, for example by lobbying for laws that make joint custody the default custody arrangement except in cases where one parent is unfit or unwilling to parent.[87][86] They appropriated the feminist rhetoric of "rights" and "equality" in their discourse, framing child custody as a matter of basic civil rights as opposed to children's rights.[14][59][88][89] Some men's rights activists argue that the lack of contact with their children makes fathers less willing to pay child support.[90] Others cite parental alienation syndrome (PAS) as a reason to grant custody to fathers.[91] Scholarly consensus has rejected PAS as an empirically-supported syndrome.[92]

Family law scholars state that father's rights proponents fail to credit feminism as being the revolutionary social force to bring awareness of fathers' equally important parental roles.[93] Scholars and critics assert that empirical research does not support the notion of a judicial bias against men[83] and that men's rights advocates distort statistics in a way that ignores the fact that the majority of men do not seek custody.[86] 90% of custody disputes are agreed upon without family court involvement[94] and studies have found fair assessment in child custody decisions and that legal appointees are more likely to award custody to parents with interpersonally sensitive traits such as warmth and compassion regardless of gender.[95]

Academics critique the rhetorical framing of custody decisions, stating that men's rights advocates appeal for "equal rights" without ever specifying the legal rights they believe have been violated.[96] Scholars and critics assert that the men's rights rhetoric of children's "needs" that accompanies their plea for fathers' rights is merely to deflect criticism that they are motivated by self-interest and masks men's rights advocates' own claims.[59][97][7] Deborah Rhode argues that contrary to the claims of some men's rights activists, research shows that joint legal custody does not increase the likelihood that fathers will pay child support or remain involved parents.[98] Michael Flood argues that the father's rights movement seems to prioritize re-establishing paternal authority over actual involvement with the children, and that they prioritize formal principles of equality over positive parenting and well-being of the children.[99]

Lundy Bancroft states that family courts repeatedly fail to protect battered women and their children by frequently granting joint or sole custody to abusive fathers.[100]

Circumcision
See also: Circumcision controversies, Ethics of circumcision, Forced circumcision, and Violence against men
Observers have noted that the 'intactivist' movement, an anti-circumcision movement, has some overlap with the men's rights movement.[61][101] Most men's rights activists object to routine neonatal circumcision and say that female genital mutilation has received more attention than male circumcision.[61][102][103][104][105][106]

The controversy around non-consensual circumcision of children for non-therapeutic reasons is not exclusive to the men's rights movement, and involves concerns of feminists and medical ethics.[107][108] Some doctors and academics have argued that circumcision is a violation of the right to health and bodily integrity,[109][108][110][111][112] while others have disagreed.[113][114][115][116]

Criminal justice
Warren Farrell claims there are criminal defenses that are only available to women.[117][non-primary source needed] N. Quintin Woolf has argued that the over-representation of men as both murderers and the victims of murder is evidence that men are being harmed by outmoded cultural attitudes.[118]

Divorce
Men's rights groups in the United States began organizing in opposition to divorce reform and custody issues around the 1960s. Up until this time, husbands held legal power and control over wives and children.[119] The men involved in the early organization claimed that family and divorce law discriminated against them and favored their wives.[120] Men's rights leader Rich Doyle likened divorce courts to slaughterhouses, considering their judgements unsympathetic and unreasonable.[121]

Men's rights adherents say that men are consciously or unconsciously opting out of marriage and engaging in a "marriage strike" as a result of a perceived lack of benefits in marriage, and the emotional and financial consequences of divorce, including alimony, child custody and support.[122] Men's rights activists have argued that divorce and custody laws violate men's individual rights to equal protection. Law professor Gwendolyn Leachman writes that this sort of framing "downplays the systemic biases that women face that justify protective divorce and custody laws".[123]

Across several countries (including the US and the UK), men file less than a third of opposite-sex divorce cases, and women file over two thirds.[124][125]

Domestic violence
See also: Domestic violence against men
Men's rights groups describe domestic violence committed by women against men as a problem that goes ignored and under-reported,[126][127] in part because men are reluctant to label themselves as victims.[127] They say that women are as aggressive or more aggressive than men in relationships[128] and that domestic violence is gender-symmetrical.[129][130] They cite controversial family conflict research by Murray Straus and Richard Gelles as evidence of gender symmetry.[131][130] Men's rights advocates argue that judicial systems too easily accept false allegations of domestic violence by women against male partners.[132] Men's rights advocates have been critics of legal, policy and practical protections for abused women,[130][133][134] campaigning for domestic violence shelters for battered men[126][127] and for the legal system to be educated about women's violence against men.[126]

In response to such claims, family violence scholar Richard Gelles published an article entitled "Domestic Violence: Not An Even Playing Field" and accused the men's rights movement of distorting his research findings on men's and women's violence to promote a misogynistic agenda.[135] Domestic violence scholars and advocates have rejected the flawed research cited by men's rights activists and dispute their claims that such violence is gender symmetrical,[14][136][128][137][138][139] suggesting that their focus on women's violence stems from a political agenda to minimize the severity of the problem of men's violence against women and children[137] and to undermine services to abused women.[128][139] Men's rights groups have lobbied to block state funding to battered women's shelters, despite the high rates of intimate partner femicide justifying greater funding.[140][130]

Education
See also: Sex differences in education
Men's rights adherents describe the education of boys as being in crisis, with boys having reduced educational achievement and motivation compared to girls.[141] Advocates blame the influence of feminism on education for what they believe is discrimination against and systematic oppression of boys in the education system.[142][143] They critique what they describe as the "feminization" of education, stating that the predominance of female teachers, a focus on girls' needs, as well as a curricula and assessment methods that supposedly favour girls, have proved repressive and restrictive to men and boys.[141][144]

Another study has also found gender differences in academic achievement not being reliably linked to gender policies, and that female academic achievement is greater than boys' in 70% of studied countries around the world.[145] However, this is contradicted in Australia by ACARA's independent NAPLAN findings that "Since their introduction, a subtle but consistent pattern of gender differences in performance on the NAPLAN tests has emerged, with boys regularly outperforming girls in numeracy, and girls consistently outperforming boys in the reading, writing, spelling, and grammar and punctuation components".[146] To further add to the confusion with other evidence presented, there has been an obvious, unexplained and significant drop in the number of boys at university in most countries. Australia, for example, has seen a drop from 61% to 46% since 1974.[147] Similar trends have been observed in the UK, which is thought to be influenced primarily by teacher policies and attitudes.[146]

Men's rights groups call for increased recognition of masculinity, greater numbers of male role models, more competitive sports, and the increased responsibilities for boys in the school setting. They have also advocated clearer school routines, more traditional school structures, including gender-segregated classrooms, and stricter discipline.[144]

Critics suggest that men's rights groups view boys as a homogeneous group sharing common experiences of schooling and that they fail to account for how responses to educational approaches may differ by age, disability, culture, ethnicity, sexuality, religion, and class.[144]

In Australia, men's rights discourse has influenced government policy documents. Compared to Australia, less impact has been noted in the United Kingdom, where feminists have historically had less influence on educational policy.[142] However, Mary Curnock Cook, the British Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) chief executive, argued that in Britain "despite the clear evidence and despite the press coverage, there is a deafening policy silence on the issue. Has the women¡¯s movement now become so normalised that we cannot conceive of needing to take positive action to secure equal education outcomes for boys?¡±[143]

Female privilege
The men's rights movement rejects the concept that men are privileged relative to women.[148] The movement is divided into two groups: those who consider men and women to be harmed equally by sexism, and those who view society as endorsing the degradation of men and upholding what they term "female privilege".[148]

Connor et al. have rejected the idea of female privilege, as research since the early 90s on ambivalent sexism across the world has found that these "privileges" are benevolent sexism, which contributes to women's oppression.[149]

Governmental structures
Men's rights groups have called for governmental structures to address issues specific to men and boys including education, health, work and marriage.[150][151][152] Men's rights groups in India have called for the creation of a Men's Welfare Ministry and a National Commission for Men, or for the abolition of the National Commission for Women.[150][153][154] In the United Kingdom, the creation of a Minister for Men analogous to the existing Minister for Women, has been proposed by David Amess, MP and Lord Northbourne, but was rejected by the government headed by Prime Minister Tony Blair.[151][155][156] In the United States, Warren Farrell heads a commission focused on the creation of a White House Council on Boys and Men as a counterpart to the White House Council on Women and Girls, which was formed in March 2009.[141][152]

Health
Men's rights groups view the health issues faced by men and their shorter life spans compared to women globally, as evidence of discrimination and oppression.[71][157] They claim that feminism has led to women's health issues being privileged at the expense of men's.[158] They highlight certain disparities in funding of men's health issues as compared to women's, noting that, for example, prostate cancer research receives less funding than breast-cancer research.[157][159] David Benatar has argued that putting more money into health research on males may reduce the disparity between men's and women's life expectancy.[160] However, women and minorities had typically been excluded from medical research until the 1990s.[161][162] Vivianna Simon notes, "Most biomedical and clinical research has been based on the assumption that the male can serve as representative of the species." Medical scholars warn that such false assumptions are still prevalent.[163] Contrary to antifeminist assertions, empirical findings suggest that gender bias against females remains the norm in medicine.[164][165][page needed] Farrell argues that industrialization raised the stress level of men while lowering the stress-level of women by pulling men away from the home and the family, and pushing women closer to home and family. He cites this an explanation why men are more likely to die from all 15 leading causes of death than women at all ages. He argues that the U.S. government having an Office of Research on Women's Health but no Office of Research on Men's Health, along with the U.S. federal government spending twice as much money on Women's health, shows that society considers men more disposable than women.[166]

Scholars have critiqued these claims,[137][157][167] stating, as Michael Messner puts it, that the poorer health outcomes are the heavy costs paid by men "for conformity with the narrow definitions of masculinity that promise to bring them status and privilege"[168] and that these costs fall disproportionately on men who are marginalized socially and economically.[167] According to Michael Flood, men's health would best be improved by "tackling destructive notions of manhood, an economic system which values profit and productivity over workers' health, and the ignorance of service providers", instead of blaming a feminist health movement.[137][not in citation given] Genevieve Creighton & John L Oliffe have stated that men engage in positive health practices, such as reducing fat intake and alcohol, to conform to positive masculine ideals.[169] Some have argued that biology contributes to the life-expectancy gap. For example, it has been found that females consistently outlive males among primates. Eunuchs, castrated before puberty, have shown to live with varying differences, more than other males, pointing to testosterone levels playing a role in the life-expectancy gap.[170] Luy M. and Gast K. found that the female-male life expectancy gap is primarily due to higher mortality rates among specific sub-populations of men (e.g., gay, trans, racial minorities). They therefore state that social programs should be narrowly targeted to those sub-populations, rather than to men as a whole.[171]

Homelessness
Men's rights advocates argue that homelessness is a gendered issue. In Britain, most homeless people are male.[172] A 2018 study focused on three Pennsylvania emergency departments found little difference in the number of men and women who self-reported as homeless; however, the study did not claim to reflect the homeless population in the United States as a whole.[173][non-primary source needed] For information on the homeless population of the United States as a whole, see Homelessness in the United States.

Incarceration
Men's rights activists argue research on differential prison terms for men and women provides evidence of discrimination against men.[174][175][176] Farrell cites evidence that men receive harsher prison sentences and are more likely sentenced to death in the United States. He believes society considers women to be naturally more innocent and credible, and criticizes battered woman and infanticide defenses.[176] He also criticizes conditions in men's prisons and the lack of attention to prison male-to-male rape by authorities.[176]

Military conscription
Men's rights adherents have argued that sole military conscription of men is an example of discrimination against men.[71][177]

In 1971, draft resisters in the United States initiated a class-action suit alleging that male-only conscription violated men's rights to equal protection under the US constitution.[178][179] When the case, Rostker v. Goldberg, reached the Supreme Court in 1981, they were supported by a men's rights group and multiple feminist groups, including the National Organization for Women.[179] However, the Supreme Court upheld the Military Selective Service Act,[178] stating that "the argument for registering women was based on considerations of equity, but Congress was entitled, in the exercise of its constitutional powers, to focus on the question of military need, rather than 'equity'".[180] The 2016 decision by Defense Secretary Ash Carter to make all combat positions open to women relaunched debate over whether or not women should be required to register for the Selective Service System.[181] In the case National Coalition for Men v. Selective Service System, a district court ruled the male-only draft unconstitutional.

Paternity fraud
Main articles: Non-paternity event and Paternity fraud
Men's and fathers' rights groups have said that there are high levels of mistaken paternity or "paternity fraud", where men are parenting and/or financially supporting children who are not biologically their own.[182] They hold biological views of fatherhood, emphasizing the imperative of the genetic foundation of paternity rather than social aspects of fatherhood.[182][183] They state that men should not be forced to support children fathered by another man,[184] and that men are harmed because a relationship is created between a man and non-biological children while denying the children and their biological father of that experience and knowledge of their genetic history. In addition, they say non-biological fathers are denied the resources to have their own biological children in another relationship.[182]

Men's rights activists support the use of nonconsensual paternity testing to reassure presumed fathers about the child's paternity;[184] men's and fathers' rights groups have called for compulsory paternity testing of all children.[182][185][186] They have campaigned vigorously in support of men who have been shown by genetic testing not to be the biological father, but who are nevertheless required to be financially responsible for them.[183] Prompted by these concerns, legislators in certain jurisdictions have supported this biological view and have passed laws providing relief from child support payments when a man is proved not to be the father.[182][183] Australian men's rights groups have opposed the recommendations of a report by the Australian Law Reform Commission and the National Health and Medical Research Council that would require the informed consent of both parents for paternity testing of young children,[184] and laws that would make it illegal to obtain a sample for DNA testing without the individual's informed consent.[187] Sociologist Michael Gilding asserts that men's rights activists have exaggerated the rate and extent of misattributed paternity, which he estimates at about 1¨C3%.[185][188][189] He opposed unnecessary calls for mandatory paternity testing of all children.[185]

Rape
False accusations against men
Main article: False accusation of rape
Men's rights activists are significantly concerned with false accusations of rape and sexual assault,[190] and desire to protect men from the negative consequences of false accusations.[191]

Men's rights proponents believe that the naming of the accused while providing the accuser (victim) with anonymity encourages abuse of this kind.[192][193][194] Men's rights advocates have also claimed that rape "has been used as a scam".[195] Studies from the United States, Australia, and the Britain have found the percentage of estimated false or unsubstantiated rape allegations to be around 2% to 8%.[196][197][198][199] Quoting research including those by Eugene Kanin and the U.S. Air Force, they assert that 40¨C50% or more of rape allegations may be false.[200][201][202]

To argue the issue of false accusations of rape, the categories of 'false' and 'unsubstantiated' are often conflated, such as the National Coalition for Men citing reports like the 1996 FBI summary that finds a rate of 8% for unsubstantiated forcible rape, which is four times higher than the average for all index crimes as a whole.[200] Experts emphasize that verified false allegations are a distinct category from unsubstantiated allegations, and conflating the two is fallacious.[203] These figures are widely debated due to the questionable methodology and small sample sizes - see the False accusation of rape page for wider survey estimates.

Criminalization of marital rape
Main article: Marital rape
Legislation and judicial decisions criminalizing marital rape are opposed by some men's rights groups in the United Kingdom,[204][205][206][207] the United States[130][208] and India.[209] The reasons for opposition include concerns about false allegations related to divorce proceedings,[210][211][212] and the belief that sex within marriage is an irrevocable part of the institution of marriage.[213][214] In India, there has been anxiety about relationships[215] and the future of marriage that such laws have given women "grossly disproportional rights".[216] Virag Dhulia of the Save Indian Family Foundation, a men's rights organization, has opposed recent efforts to criminalize marital rape in India, arguing that "no relationship will work if these rules are enforced".[215]

Critique of men's rights rape discourse
Feminist scholars Lise Gotell and Emily Dutton argue that content on the manosphere reveals anti-feminist pro-rape arguments, including that sexual violence is a gender-neutral problem, feminists are responsible for erasing men's experiences of victimization, false allegations are widespread, and that rape culture is a feminist-produced moral panic. They contend it is important to engage [this topic] as there is a real danger that MRA (Men's Rights Activism) claims could come to define the popular conversation about sexual violence.[217]

Reproductive rights
In 2006, the American National Center for Men backed a lawsuit known as Dubay v. Wells. The case concerned whether men should have the opportunity to decline all paternity rights and responsibilities in the event of an unplanned pregnancy. Supporters argued that this would allow the woman time to make an informed decision and give men the same reproductive rights as women.[218] The case and the appeal were dismissed, with the U.S. Court of Appeals (Sixth Circuit) stating that neither parent has the right to sever their financial responsibilities for a child and that "Dubay's claim that a man's right to disclaim fatherhood would be analogous to a woman's right to abortion rests upon a false analogy".[219][220]

Social security and insurance
Men's rights groups argue that women are given superior social security and tax benefits than men.[63] Warren Farrell states that men in the United States pay more into social security, but in total, women receive more in benefits, and that discrimination against men in insurance and pensions have gone unrecognized.[221]

Suicide
Main article: Gender differences in suicide
Men's rights activists point to higher suicide rates in men compared to women.[157][158] In the United States for example, the male-to-female suicide death ratio varies, approximately, between 3:1 and 10:1.[222] However, studies have found an over-representation of women in attempted or incomplete suicides and men in complete suicide.[223] This phenomenon, described as the "gender paradox of suicide", is argued to derive from a tendency for females to use less lethal methods and greater male access and use of lethal methods.[223][224]

Criticism
The men's rights movement has been criticized for exhibiting misogynistic tendencies.[225] The Southern Poverty Law Center has stated that while some of the websites, blogs and forums related to the movement "voice legitimate and sometimes disturbing complaints about the treatment of men, what is most remarkable is the misogynistic tone that pervades so many".[136][226][227] After further research into the movement, the SPLC elaborated: "A thinly veiled desire for the domination of women and a conviction that the current system oppresses men in favor of women are the unifying tenets of the male supremacist worldview."[4] Other studies have pointed towards men's rights groups in India trying to change or completely abolish important legal protections for women as a form of patriarchal anxiety as well as being hostile towards women.[228]

Professor Ruth M. Mann of the University of Windsor in Canada suggests that men's rights groups fuel an international rhetoric of hatred and victimization by disseminating misinformation via online forums and websites containing constantly-updated "diatribes against feminism, ex-wives, child support, shelters, and the family law and criminal justice systems".[229] According to Mann, these stories reignite their hatred and reinforce their beliefs that the system is biased against men and that feminism is responsible for a large scale and ongoing "cover-up" of men's victimization. Mann says that although existing legislation in Canada acknowledges that men are also victims of domestic violence, men's rights advocates demand government recognition that men are equally or more victimized by domestic violence, claims not supported by the data.[229] Mann also states that in contrast to feminist groups, who have advocated for domestic violence services on behalf of other historically oppressed groups in addition to women, such as individuals impacted by poverty, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation, etc., men's rights groups have attempted to achieve their goals by actively opposing and attempting to dismantle services and supports put in place to protect abused women and children.[229]

Domestic abuse expert Lundy Bancroft has called men's rights "the abuser's crusade" and said that the attitudes of the movement contribute to abuse of women.[230]

Other researchers such as Michael Flood have accused the men's rights movement, particularly the father's rights groups in Australia, of endangering women, children, and even men who are at greater risk of abuse and violence.[231][7] Flood states that the men's rights/father's rights groups in Australia pursues "equality with a vengeance" or equal policies with negative outcomes and motives in order to re-establish paternal authority over the well-being of children and women as well as positive parenting.[231]


Saaliyah
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Saaliyah Umar Khan
Village
Saaliyah
Saaliyah Umar Khan is located in PakistanSaaliyah Umar KhanSaaliyah Umar Khan
Coordinates: 33¡ã20¡ä5¡åN 73¡ã33¡ä32¡åE
Country	 Pakistan
UC	Samote
Tehsil	Kallar Syedan
District	Rawalpindi
Time zone	UTC+5 (PST)
Saaliyah (also called: Saaliyah Umar Khan is a Village in Samote Union Council of Kallar Syedan Tehsil, Rawalpindi District in the Punjab Province of Pakistan.[1]

Schools in Kaaliyah Saaliyah
Government Boys High School KAHLIAN SIAHLIAN, SAMOOT, KALLAR SYEDAN[2]


Droceta cedrota
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Droceta cedrota
Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Animalia
Phylum:	Arthropoda
Class:	Insecta
Order:	Lepidoptera
Family:	Tortricidae
Genus:	Droceta
Species:	D. cedrota
Binomial name
Droceta cedrota
(Meyrick, 1908)[1]
Synonyms
Tortrix cedrota Meyrick, 1908
Cnephasia cedrota
Droceta cedrota is a species of moth of the Tortricidae family. It is found in Gauteng, South Africa.[2]


King's Point
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Not to be confused with King's Cove, Newfoundland and Labrador.
This article is about the town in Newfoundland and Labrador. For other uses, see Kings Point (disambiguation).
King's Point
Town
Country	 Canada
Province	 Newfoundland and Labrador
Population (2016)
 ? Total	659
Time zone	UTC-3:30 (Newfoundland Time)
 ? Summer (DST)	UTC-2:30 (Newfoundland Daylight)
Area code(s)	709
Website	www.townofkingspoint.ca
King's Point is a town on the north shore of the southwest arm of Green Bay in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. King's Point is 24 km (15 mi) by road from Springdale, and 10 km (6.2 mi) from the Trans-Canada Highway.


Contents
1	History
1.1	Religion
1.2	Education
2	See also
History
The earliest inhabitants of King's Point were the Maritime Archaic Indians and later the Beothuk Indians. Before the 1860s the area was a source of timber for French fishermen and naval vessels occupying the "French Shore". In the 1860s the first known European settler, James King, established fishing premises and a dwelling on the Point. This is how the community got its name. His dwelling was destroyed by high tides shortly after and abandoned by King.

By 1875, when Alexander Murray (head of the Geological Survey of Newfoundland) did an extensive survey of the area, there were three or four families settled at King's Point. They lived in carved homesteads out of the virgin forests, which according to Murray grew right to the water's edge. Murray and James Howley, surveyed to the Arm, laid out lots for a proposed community at King's Point in 1875, and surveyed a route for a proposed road to Indian River along a route almost identical to the present highway 391. He predicted King's Point's future importance in forestry, agriculture and mining, and pointed out its great tourism potential.

A railway was started around 1908, to carry passengers from Europe (arriving on steamships) from King's Point to Bonne Bay for transport to the United States. Construction started and four miles of rail bed was built before the project was cancelled after the Robert Bond Government was defeated in a general election.

In 1909, Esau Burt, a local resident, discovered the Randell-Jackman mine. He was cheated out of his discovery by Randell and Jackman, who went on to lose over $40,000 of their money on the mine. A shaft(s) was sunk and ore extracted. Some sources say that no ore was ever shipped, but local sources say that five or six shiploads were shipped from it.


Humpback whale skeleton in a museum in King's Point
By 1900 there were 15 to 18 families, mostly fishermen and farmers living at King's Point. Mines at Colchester and other locations on the south side of the Arm had closed.

In 1903 the first school opened by the Methodists. The first teacher was Moody Batstone (around 18 years old) from Nippers Harbour.

As early as 1870, King's Point has had a telegraph office. In 1880, it became a repeater station on a line running from the Newfoundland Railway line to Tilt Cove and Bett's Cove. Michael Smart became its first operator. In the early 1900s, fishing and farming were the economic mainstay. A herring canning industry was established by the Redmonds and others with export to Europe. This industry ended before 1920. Fishing hasn't been very important in King's Point since, although there are a few residents today who depend on it for a living.

As the fishery declined, sawmilling became the main employer. The Thistle family moved in around 1900 and set up a large sawmill and shingle mill, as well as a retail business, on the "Point", which became and remained the major employer until about 1938-1940, when the family moved its operations to Burlington.

From the 1900 to present day smaller sawmills operated and contributed to the local economy. In the 1940s and 1950s many residents engaged in producing pulpwood for export to Germany. Starting in the 1960s to the present day the production, haulage, and trucking of pulpwood for the papermills at Corner Brook and Grand Falls, has provided the majority of employment to the people of King's Point. Subsistence farming provided part of a living to early residents and gradually evolved into the commercial farming ventures that are significant contributor to the economies of King's Point and Rattling Brook today.

Religion
In 1883, King's Point was served by the Methodist Mission of Little Bay. Later it became the United Church, which serves the area today. In the 1870s to early 1900s, the Anglican Church served the community but is no longer operating. The first Salvation Army officer was station in King's Point in 1921, and the church is operating there now. In the 1970s, the first Pentecostal Church was opened and the Pentecostal Assemblies are still operating today.

Education
The first school was built by the Methodists in 1903. Subsequently, the United Church and the Salvation Army established and operated separate schools here, until the late 1960s, when they amalgamated to set up Ridgemont Collegiate.

Later the system became a part of the Green Bay School District. Since the 1980s Valmont Academy, an all-grade school, now serves students in the King's Point¨CHarry's Harbour area. There is a modern gym, labs, library and other facilities.


Professional learning community
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
A professional learning community (PLC) is a method to foster collaborative learning among colleagues within a particular work environment or field. It is often used in schools as a way to organize teachers into working groups of practice-based professional learning.


Contents
1	History
2	Definitions
3	Attributes
4	Supporting conditions
5	Use of data
6	Staff development
6.1	Barriers to implementation
6.2	Staff as a community
7	Leadership
8	See also
9	References
10	External links
History
The phrase professional learning community began to be used in the 1990s after Peter Senge's book The Fifth Discipline (1990) had popularized the idea of learning organizations,[1][2]:2 related to the idea of reflective practice espoused by Donald Sch?n in books such as The Reflective Turn: Case Studies in and on Educational Practice (1991).[3][4] Charles B. Myers and Lynn K. Myers used the phrase professional learning community in relation to schools in their 1995 book The Professional Educator: A New Introduction to Teaching and Schools,[5] and a year later Charles B. Myers presented a paper at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association titled "Beyond the PDS: Schools as Professional Learning Communities" that proposed a path from professional development school (PDS) efforts to schools as professional learning communities.[6] In 1997, Shirley M. Hord issued a white paper titled "Professional Learning Communities: Communities of Continuous Inquiry and Improvement".[7] A year later, Richard DuFour and Robert E. Eaker published the book Professional Learning Communities at Work.[8] Since the late 1990s, a large literature on PLCs has been published.[9]

Definitions
PLCs have many variations. In Shirley M. Hord's 1997 definition, it means "extending classroom practice into the community; bringing community personnel into the school to enhance the curriculum and learning tasks for students; or engaging students, teachers, and administrators simultaneously in learning".[7]:1 Hord noted that the benefits of professional learning community to educators and students include reduced isolation of teachers, better informed and committed teachers, and academic gains for students.[7] In 1998, Richard DuFour and Robert E. Eaker explained:

If schools are to be significantly more effective, they must break from the industrial model upon which they were created and embrace a new model that enables them to function as learning organizations. We prefer characterizing learning organizations as "professional learning communities" for several vital reasons. While the term "organization" suggests a partnership enhanced by efficiency, expediency, and mutual interests, "community" places greater emphasis on relationships, shared ideals, and a strong culture¡ªall factors that are critical to school improvement. The challenge for educators is to create a community of commitment¡ªa professional learning community. [...] It sounds simple enough, but as the old adage warns, "the devil is in the details." Educators willing to embrace the concept of the school as a professional learning community will be given ambiguous, oftentimes conflicting advice on how they should proceed.

¡ª?Richard DuFour and Robert E. Eaker, Professional Learning Communities at Work[8]:15¨C16
In 2004, DuFour stated that initiating and sustaining a PLC "requires the school staff to focus on learning rather than teaching, work collaboratively on matters related to learning, and hold itself accountable for the kind of results that fuel continual improvement".[10]:11 In 2005, the Ontario Ministry of Education defined a PLC as "a shared vision for running a school in which everyone can make a contribution, and staff are encouraged to collectively undertake activities and reflection in order to constantly improve their students' performance".[11]:53

Michael Fullan has noted that "in the spread of PLCs, we have found that the term travels a lot faster than the concept, a finding common to all innovations. The concept is deep and requires careful and persistent attention in thorough learning by reflective doing and problem solving."[12] Fullan also noted: "Transforming the culture of schools and the systems within which they operate is the main point. It is not an innovation to be implemented, but rather a new culture to be developed."[12]

Attributes
There are many core characteristics of PLCs including collective teamwork in which leadership and responsibility for student learning are extensively shared, a focus on reflective inquiry and dialogue among educators, collective emphasis on improving student learning, shared values and norms, and development of common practices and feedback.[13]

The 2005 report by the Ontario Ministry of Education titled Education for All indicates the characteristics of PLCs are as follows:[11]:54

Shared vision and values that lead to a collective commitment of school staff, which is expressed in day-to-day practices
Solutions actively sought, openness to new ideas
Working teams cooperate to achieve common goals
Encouragement of experimentation as an opportunity to learn
Questioning of the status quo, leading to an ongoing quest for improvement and professional learning
Continuous improvement based on evaluation of outcomes rather than on the intentions expressed
Reflection in order to study the operation and impacts of actions taken
Supporting conditions
Around the time that the term professional learning community was coined, a group of education researchers became interested in the similar idea of "professional community" in schools.[14][15] Based on data they collected in their research for the Center on Organization and Restructuring of Schools, Sharon Kruse, Karen Seashore Louis, and Anthony Bryk developed a three-part framework to describe the critical elements and supportive conditions that are necessary to establish a healthy "professional" culture.[14] The components of this framework are described in the following table. Kruse and colleagues found that "in schools where professional community is strong, teachers work together more effectively, and put more efforts into creating and sustaining opportunities for student learning."[14] They also suggested that the social and human resources are more important than the structural conditions in the development of professional community.

Professional culture in schools[14]
Critical elements
Reflective dialogue	De-privatization of practice	Collective focus on student learning	Collaboration	Shared norms and values
Supporting conditions
Structural conditions
Time to meet and talk
Physical proximity
Interdependent teaching roles
Communication structures
Teacher empowerment and school autonomy
Social and human resources
Openness to improvement
Trust and respect
Cognitive and skill base
Supportive leadership
Socialization
Use of data
[icon]	
This section needs expansion with: further examples of use of data in PLCs. You can help by adding to it. (May 2017)
In their 2015 examination of middle school mathematics teachers' collaborative conversations regarding student data, Jason Brasel, Brette Garner, Britnie Kane and Ilana Horn found that the teachers used data to answer four questions:[16]

"What do we need to reteach?"
"To whom do we need to reteach it?"
"Why did students struggle with this?"
"How do we reteach it?"
The matrix in the following table shows how Brasel and colleagues found that the teachers combined these four questions to learn about two dimensions of teaching: student thinking and instruction.[16] The authors found that while the most productive collaborative discussions¡ªthat allowed the teachers to learn more about mathematics content, students and pedagogy¡ªfocused more on why and how, the teachers tended to address only the first two questions, what and to whom. While these conversations were helpful in identifying students in need of remediation, they did little in the way to improve instruction in the long run.[16]

Learning about instruction[16]
Weak	Strong
Learning about
student thinking	Weak	Targeted reteaching
What?
To whom?
Tips and tricks
What?
To whom and how?
Strong	Bounded improvement
What and why?
To whom?
Responsive revisioning
What and why?
To whom and how?
Staff development
Barriers to implementation
Teachers and other educators can feel as if they are pawns in a larger game of chess where school and district leaders are making decisions that cause problems for educators trying to do their jobs.[17]:16 Barriers that can inhibit the development of PLCs include subject areas, because some educational subjects tend to naturally take precedence over others.[18]:35 The physical layout of the school can be another obstacle.[18]:35

In the book Intentional Interruption: Breaking Down Learning Barriers to Professional Practice, Steven Katz and Lisa Ain Dack identified six mental barriers to learning in PLCs: "we don't think through all possibilities; we focus on confirming our hypotheses and not challenging them; we pay too much attention to things that are vivid; we consider ourselves to be exceptions; we hesitate to take action in a new direction; we don't want others to see our vulnerabilities".[19]:51¨C68 Katz and Dack opt for a psychological definition of learning: "Learning is the process through which experience causes permanent change in knowledge or behaviour".[19]:14 It is the characteristic of permanence which raises the bar for all professional learning, because learning as permanent change is not easy or natural to achieve.[19]:15¨C17 Katz and Dack urge designers of professional learning to avoid the "activity trap" of assuming that participation in a protocol or process guarantees real learning has occurred or putting so much emphasis on the activity that learning is lost in the shuffle.[19]:77¨C78

Because of these difficulties many teachers are turning to the web for PLCs. Teachers are finding groups through Twitter, Facebook, and other social media websites that allow them to interact with teachers from across their country to brainstorm and exchange ideas.[20] These groups can be helpful for those with PLCs already at their current school and those without PLCs.

Staff as a community
A PLC can be seen as an effective staff development team approach and a strategy for school improvement. The PLC process aims to be a reflective process where both individual and community growth is achieved, connected with the school's shared vision for learning. In his book The Fifth Discipline, Peter Senge commented on the importance of building shared vision:

The practice of shared vision involves the skills of unearthing shared "pictures of the future" that foster genuine commitment and enrollment rather than compliance. In mastering this discipline, leaders learn the counter-productiveness of trying to dictate a vision, no matter how heartfelt.

¡ª?Peter Senge, The Fifth Discipline[1]:9
Creation of a shared vision involves sharing diverse ideas and making compromises so that all members are satisfied with the direction in which the organization is moving. Conflicting goals can become a source of positive development: "Top-down mandates and bottom-up energies need each other".[21]:19

Through this commitment and creation of a shared vision the team may become empowered to work together and achieve goals. As teachers' capacity increases and they develop a sense of professional growth, they may find they are able to reach goals they could not reach on their own.

In an educational setting, a PLC may include people from multiple levels of the organization who are collaboratively and continually working together for the betterment of the organization.[22] Peter Senge believes "it is no longer sufficient to have one person learning for the organization".[23]:3 A major principle of PLCs is that people learn more together than if they were on their own, if conditions are right.[19] Teachers may promote the idea of team learning to students in their classrooms, but teachers may not practice team learning in their professional lives; PLCs aim to help teachers practice the team learning that they preach. Senge suggests that when teams learn together there are beneficial results for the organization.[23] Some school improvement evaluators have even claimed that "high-quality collaboration has become no less than an imperative".[24]

Leadership
For a school to be fully committed to implementing PLCs, the school's leadership must help establish and maintain PLCs.[8] Successful PLCs will require a shift in the traditional leadership structure from leader-centered (top-down) to shared leadership.[8] Sue C. Thompson and her colleagues pointed out how many educators often feel that "new ideas that came from someone else without teacher input" are a waste of time and do not qualify as true leadership or support.[2]:4 In a PLC, the view of the principal as the instructional leader changes to a view that reflects the principal as a member of a community of learners and leaders.[8]


1994 United States Senate election in Michigan
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
United States Senate election in Michigan, 1994

¡û 1988	November 8, 1994	2000 ¡ú
 	Spencer Abraham.jpg	Milton Robert Carr (cropped).jpg
Nominee	Spencer Abraham	Bob Carr	
Party	Republican	Democratic
Popular vote	1,578,770	1,300,960
Percentage	51.9%	42.8%
Michigan Senate Election Results by County, 1994.svg
County Results 
Abraham:      40-50%      50-60%      60-70%      70-80%

Carr:      40¨C50%      50¨C60%
U.S. Senator before election
Don Riegle
Democratic

Elected U.S. Senator 
Spencer Abraham
Republican

Elections in Michigan

Federal government[show]
State government[show]
Ballot measures[show]
Detroit[show]
Flint[show]
Lansing[show]
vte
The 1994 United States Senate election in Michigan was held November 8, 1994. Incumbent Democratic U.S. Senator Don Riegle decided to retire and not run for re-election. Republican Spencer Abraham won the open seat, becoming the first Republican to win a U.S. Senate race in Michigan since 1972 United States Senate election in Michigan. As of 2019, this is the last Senate election in Michigan won by a Republican.


Contents
1	Background
2	Candidates
2.1	Democratic
2.2	Republican
2.3	Libertarian
2.4	Workers World
2.5	Natural Law
3	Results
4	See also
5	References
Background
Riegle, a 3-term incumbent, was considered one of the most vulnerable Senate Democrats in the 1994 mid-term elections, due to the unpopularity of President Bill Clinton[1] and his being involved as a member of the Keating Five, a group of five United States Senators who were accused of corruption. After months of speculation, Riegle announced he would not seek a 4th term in a speech on the Senate floor.[2]

Candidates
Democratic
Bob Carr, U.S. Representative
Republican
Spencer Abraham, Chairman of Michigan Republican Party
Libertarian
Jon Coon
Workers World
William Roundtree
Natural Law
Chris Wege
Results
General election results[3]
Party	Candidate	Votes	%
Republican	Spencer Abraham	1,578,770	51.9
Democratic	Bob Carr	1,300,960	42.8
Libertarian	Jon Coon	128,393	4.2
Workers World	William Roundtree	20,010	0.7
Natural Law	Chris Wege	14,746	0.5


Chalet Suzanne
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Ambox current red.svg
This article needs to be updated. Please update this article to reflect recent events or newly available information. (July 2018)
Chalet Suzanne
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
Chalet Suzanne (Lake Wales, Florida) 001.jpg
Chalet Suzanne
Chalet Suzanne is located in FloridaChalet Suzanne
Show map of Florida
Show map of the United States
Show all
Location	3800 Chalet Suzanne Drive
Lake Wales, Florida
Coordinates	27¡ã57¡ä25¡åN 81¡ã35¡ä55¡åWCoordinates: 27¡ã57¡ä25¡åN 81¡ã35¡ä55¡åW
NRHP reference #	90001085[1]
Added to NRHP	July 24, 1990
Chalet Suzanne (once known as the Carleton Club) is a historic site in Lake Wales, Florida. It is located at 3800 Chalet Suzanne Drive. On July 24, 1990, it was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.

Originally envisioned as a magnificent residential resort appealing to people who enjoyed golf and tennis, the Carleton Club was a vision of cheese baron James L. Kraft and Carl and Bertha Hinshaw. Kraft soon bowed out of the enterprise. When Carl Hinshaw died in 1931, Bertha Hinshaw opened her home as a restaurant and inn to travelers, serving exotic recipes on fine china that she had gathered around the world. Among those who visited and helped to publicize the restaurant and inn was Duncan Hines. Other famous guests have included Burt Reynolds, Dinah Shore, Robert Redford, Johnny Carson, Kevin Costner and Don Johnson.[2]

In 1943 the Chalet was largely destroyed by fire. Hinshaw quickly rebuilt it using salvaged parts from the horse stables, a game room, servants¡¯ quarters and a chicken house. This unusual design had 14 different levels.

In 1956, Carl Hinshaw Jr. opened a cannery on the property for the restaurant's famous soups, including their signature romaine. The soups became very popular, selling worldwide. Chalet Suzanne soup went with the astronauts to the moon during the Apollo 15 and 16 flights.[3]

The Chalet has been featured in many publications, among them The New Yorker, Vogue, Life, Better Homes and Gardens, Cosmopolitan, National Geographic, Forbes and Time magazines. Bertha Louise Hinshaw died in 1973 at the age of 90; the Chalet continues under the ownership and management of the Hinshaw family.

On July 10, 2014, it was announced that with the retirement of the Hinshaw family, the Chalet would close on or about August 4. The business and property are up for sale as a result.[4] As of May 2016, current owners Eric and Dee Hinshaw have turned down offers from property developers who wanted to build houses, hoping that someone with a "grand vision for the property" will purchase it.[5]


Synergy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For other uses, see Synergy (disambiguation).

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Synergy" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (September 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Synergy is the creation of a whole that is greater than the simple sum of its parts. The term synergy comes from the Attic Greek word ¦Ò¦Ô¦Í¦Å¦Ñ¦Ã?¦Á synergia[1] from synergos, ¦Ò¦Ô¦Í¦Å¦Ñ¦Ã??, meaning "working together".


Contents
1	History
2	Descriptions and usages
3	Biological sciences
3.1	Pest synergy
3.2	Drug synergy
3.3	Toxicological synergy
4	Human synergy
5	Corporate synergy
5.1	Marketing
5.2	Revenue
5.3	Financial
5.3.1	Cash slack
5.3.2	Debt capacity
5.3.3	Tax benefits
5.4	Management
5.5	Cost
6	Synergistic action in economy
6.1	Synergistic determinants
6.2	Synergistic networks and systems
6.3	Synergy effects
7	Computers
8	Synergy in literature
9	Synergy in the media
10	Information theory
11	See also
12	References
13	External links
History
The words synergy and synergetic have been used in the field of physiology since at least the middle of the 19th century:

SYN'ERGY, Synergi'a, Synenergi'a, (F.) Synergie; from ¦Ò¦Ô¦Í, 'with', and ¦Å¦Ñ¦Ã¦Ï¦Í, 'work'. A correlation or concourse of action between different organs in health; and, according to some, in disease.

¡ªDunglison, Robley Medical Lexicon Blanchard and Lea, 1853
In 1896, Henri Mazel applied the term "synergy" to social psychology by writing La synergie sociale, in which he argued that Darwinian theory failed to account for "social synergy" or "social love", a collective evolutionary drive. The highest civilizations were the work not only of the elite but of the masses too; those masses must be led, however, because the crowd, a feminine and unconscious force, cannot distinguish between good and evil.[2]

In 1909, Lester Frank Ward defined synergy as the universal constructive principle of nature:

I have characterized the social struggle as centrifugal and social solidarity as centripetal. Either alone is productive of evil consequences. Struggle is essentially destructive of the social order, while communism removes individual initiative. The one leads to disorder, the other to degeneracy. What is not seen¡ªthe truth that has no expounders¡ªis that the wholesome, constructive movement consists in the properly ordered combination and interaction of both these principles. This is social synergy, which is a form of cosmic synergy, the universal constructive principle of nature.

¡ªWard, Lester F. Glimpses of the Cosmos, volume VI (1897¨C1912) G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1918, p. 358
Descriptions and usages
In the natural world, synergistic phenomena are ubiquitous, ranging from physics (for example, the different combinations of quarks that produce protons and neutrons) to chemistry (a popular example is water, a compound of hydrogen and oxygen), to the cooperative interactions among the genes in genomes, the division of labor in bacterial colonies, the synergies of scale in multi-cellular organisms, as well as the many different kinds of synergies produced by socially-organized groups, from honeybee colonies to wolf packs and human societies: compare stigmergy, a mechanism of indirect coordination between agents or actions that results in the self-assembly of complex systems. Even the tools and technologies that are widespread in the natural world represent important sources of synergistic effects. The tools that enabled early hominins to become systematic big-game hunters is a primordial human example.[3]

In the context of organizational behavior, following the view that a cohesive group is more than the sum of its parts, synergy is the ability of a group to outperform even its best individual member. These conclusions are derived from the studies conducted by Jay Hall on a number of laboratory-based group ranking and prediction tasks. He found that effective groups actively looked for the points in which they disagreed and in consequence encouraged conflicts amongst the participants in the early stages of the discussion. In contrast, the ineffective groups felt a need to establish a common view quickly, used simple decision making methods such as averaging, and focused on completing the task rather than on finding solutions they could agree on.[4] In a technical context, its meaning is a construct or collection of different elements working together to produce results not obtainable by any of the elements alone. The elements, or parts, can include people, hardware, software, facilities, policies, documents: all things required to produce system-level results. The value added by the system as a whole, beyond that contributed independently by the parts, is created primarily by the relationship among the parts, that is, how they are interconnected. In essence, a system constitutes a set of interrelated components working together with a common objective: fulfilling some designated need.[5]

If used in a business application, synergy means that teamwork will produce an overall better result than if each person within the group were working toward the same goal individually. However, the concept of group cohesion needs to be considered. Group cohesion is that property that is inferred from the number and strength of mutual positive attitudes among members of the group. As the group becomes more cohesive, its functioning is affected in a number of ways. First, the interactions and communication between members increase. Common goals, interests and small size all contribute to this. In addition, group member satisfaction increases as the group provides friendship and support against outside threats.[6]

There are negative aspects of group cohesion that have an effect on group decision-making and hence on group effectiveness. There are two issues arising. The risky shift phenomenon is the tendency of a group to make decisions that are riskier than those that the group would have recommended individually. Group Polarisation is when individuals in a group begin by taking a moderate stance on an issue regarding a common value and, after having discussed it, end up taking a more extreme stance.[7]

A second, potential negative consequence of group cohesion is group think. Group think is a mode of thinking that people engage in when they are deeply involved in cohesive group, when the members' striving for unanimity overrides their motivation to appraise realistically the alternative courses of action. Studying the events of several American policy "disasters" such as the failure to anticipate the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor (1941) and the Bay of Pigs Invasion fiasco (1961), Irving Janis argued that they were due to the cohesive nature of the committees that made the relevant decisions.[8]

That decisions made by committees lead to failure in a simple system is noted by Dr. Chris Elliot. His case study looked at IEEE-488, an international standard set by the leading US standards body; it led to a failure of small automation systems using the IEEE-488 standard (which codified a proprietary communications standard HP-IB). But the external devices used for communication were made by two different companies, and the incompatibility between the external devices led to a financial loss for the company. He argues that systems will be safe only if they are designed, not if they emerge by chance.[9]

The idea of a systemic approach is endorsed by the United Kingdom Health and Safety Executive. The successful performance of the health and safety management depends upon the analyzing the causes of incidents and accidents and learning correct lessons from them. The idea is that all events (not just those causing injuries) represent failures in control, and present an opportunity for learning and improvement.[10] UK Health and Safety Executive, Successful health and safety management (1997): this book describes the principles and management practices, which provide the basis of effective health and safety management. It sets out the issues that need to be addressed, and can be used for developing improvement programs, self-audit, or self-assessment. Its message is that organizations must manage health and safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities, if they are to effectively control risks and prevent harm to people.

The term synergy was refined by R. Buckminster Fuller, who analyzed some of its implications more fully[11] and coined the term synergetics.[12]

A dynamic state in which combined action is favored over the difference of individual component actions.
Behavior of whole systems unpredicted by the behavior of their parts taken separately, known as emergent behavior.
The cooperative action of two or more stimuli (or drugs), resulting in a different or greater response than that of the individual stimuli.
Biological sciences
Synergy of various kinds has been advanced by Peter Corning as a causal agency that can explain the progressive evolution of complexity in living systems over the course of time. According to the Synergism Hypothesis, synergistic effects have been the drivers of cooperative relationships of all kinds and at all levels in living systems. The thesis, in a nutshell, is that synergistic effects have often provided functional advantages (economic benefits) in relation to survival and reproduction that have been favored by natural selection. The cooperating parts, elements, or individuals become, in effect, functional ¡°units¡± of selection in evolutionary change.[13] Similarly, environmental systems may react in a non-linear way to perturbations, such as climate change, so that the outcome may be greater than the sum of the individual component alterations. Synergistic responses are a complicating factor in environmental modeling.[14]

Pest synergy
Pest synergy would occur in a biological host organism population, where, for example, the introduction of parasite A may cause 10% fatalities, and parasite B may also cause 10% loss. When both parasites are present, the losses would normally be expected to total less than 20%, yet, in some cases, losses are significantly greater. In such cases, it is said that the parasites in combination have a synergistic effect.

Drug synergy
Mechanisms that may be involved in the development of synergistic effects include:

Effect on the same cellular system (e.g. two different antibiotics like a penicillin and an aminoglycoside; penicillins damage the cell wall of gram-positive bacteria and improve the penetration of aminoglycosides).[15]
Prevention or delay of degradation in the body (e.g. the antibiotic Ciprofloxacin inhibits the metabolism of Theophylline).[16]
Slowdown of excretion (e.g. Probenecid delays the renal excretion of Penicillin and thus prolongs its effect).[16]
Anticounteractive action: for example, the effect of oxaliplatin and irinotecan. Oxaliplatin intercalates DNA, thereby preventing the cell from replicating DNA. Irinotecan inhibits topoisomerase 1, consequently the cytostatic effect is increased.[17]
Effect on the same receptor but different sites (e.g. the coadministration of benzodiazepines and barbiturates, both act by enhancing the action of GABA on GABAA receptors, but benzodiazepines increase the frequency of channel opening, whilst barbiturates increase the channel closing time, making these two drugs dramatically enhance GABAergic neurotransmission).[citation needed]
More mechanisms are described in an exhaustive 2009 review.[17]

Toxicological synergy
Toxicological synergy is of concern to the public and regulatory agencies because chemicals individually considered safe might pose unacceptable health or ecological risk in combination. Articles in scientific and lay journals include many definitions of chemical or toxicological synergy, often vague or in conflict with each other. Because toxic interactions are defined relative to the expectation under "no interaction", a determination of synergy (or antagonism) depends on what is meant by "no interaction".[18] The United States Environmental Protection Agency has one of the more detailed and precise definitions of toxic interaction, designed to facilitate risk assessment.[19] In their guidance documents, the no-interaction default assumption is dose addition, so synergy means a mixture response that exceeds that predicted from dose addition. The EPA emphasizes that synergy does not always make a mixture dangerous, nor does antagonism always make the mixture safe; each depends on the predicted risk under dose addition.

For example, a consequence of pesticide use is the risk of health effects. During the registration of pesticides in the United States exhaustive tests are performed to discern health effects on humans at various exposure levels. A regulatory upper limit of presence in foods is then placed on this pesticide. As long as residues in the food stay below this regulatory level, health effects are deemed highly unlikely and the food is considered safe to consume.

However, in normal agricultural practice, it is rare to use only a single pesticide. During the production of a crop, several different materials may be used. Each of them has had determined a regulatory level at which they would be considered individually safe. In many cases, a commercial pesticide is itself a combination of several chemical agents, and thus the safe levels actually represent levels of the mixture. In contrast, a combination created by the end user, such as a farmer, has rarely been tested in that combination. The potential for synergy is then unknown or estimated from data on similar combinations. This lack of information also applies to many of the chemical combinations to which humans are exposed, including residues in food, indoor air contaminants, and occupational exposures to chemicals. Some groups think that the rising rates of cancer, asthma, and other health problems may be caused by these combination exposures; others have alternative explanations. This question will likely be answered only after years of exposure by the population in general and research on chemical toxicity, usually performed on animals. Examples of pesticide synergists include Piperonyl butoxide and MGK 264.[20]

Human synergy

This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Human synergy relates to human interaction and teamwork. For example, say person A alone is too short to reach an apple on a tree and person B is too short as well. Once person B sits on the shoulders of person A, they are tall enough to reach the apple. In this example, the product of their synergy would be one apple. Another case would be two politicians. If each is able to gather one million votes on their own, but together they were able to appeal to 2.5 million voters, their synergy would have produced 500,000 more votes than had they each worked independently. A song is also a good example of human synergy, taking more than one musical part and putting them together to create a song that has a much more dramatic effect than each of the parts when played individually.

A third form of human synergy is when one person is able to complete two separate tasks by doing one action, for example, if a person were asked by a teacher and his boss at work to write an essay on how he could improve his work. A more visual example of this synergy is a drummer using four separate rhythms to create one drum beat.

Synergy usually arises when two persons with different complementary skills cooperate. In business, cooperation of people with organizational and technical skills happens very often. In general, the most common reason why people cooperate is that it brings a synergy. On the other hand, people tend to specialize just to be able to form groups with high synergy (see also division of labor and teamwork).

Example: Two teams in System Administration working together to combine technical and organizational skills in order to better the client experience, thus creating synergy. Counter-examples can be found in books like The Mythical Man-Month, in which the addition of additional team members is shown to have negative effects on productivity.

Organismic computing is an approach to improving group efficacy by increasing synergy in human groups via technological means.

When synergy occurs in the work place, the individuals involved get to work in a positive and supportive working environment. When individuals get to work in environments such as these, the company reaps the benefits. The authors of Creating the Best Workplace on Earth Rob Goffee and Gareth Jones, state that "highly engaged employees are, on average, 50% more likely to exceed expectations that the least-engaged workers. And companies with highly engaged people outperform firms with the most disengaged folks- by 54% in employee retention, by 89% in customer satisfaction, and by fourfold in revenue growth (Goffee & Jones, pg. 100)." Also, those that are able to be open about their views on the company, and have confidence that they will be heard, are likely to be a more organized employee who helps his/ her fellow team members succeed.[21]

Corporate synergy
Main article: corporate synergy
Corporate synergy occurs when corporations interact congruently. A corporate synergy refers to a financial benefit that a corporation expects to realize when it merges with or acquires another corporation. This type of synergy is a nearly ubiquitous feature of a corporate acquisition and is a negotiating point between the buyer and seller that impacts the final price both parties agree to. There are distinct types of corporate synergies, as follows.

Marketing
A marketing synergy refers to the use of information campaigns, studies, and scientific discovery or experimentation for research or development. This promotes the sale of products for varied use or off-market sales as well as development of marketing tools and in several cases exaggeration of effects. It is also often a meaningless buzzword used by corporate leaders.[22][23]

Revenue
A revenue synergy refers to the opportunity of a combined corporate entity to generate more revenue than its two predecessor stand-alone companies would be able to generate. For example, if company A sells product X through its sales force, company B sells product Y, and company A decides to buy company B then the new company could use each sales person to sell products X and Y, thereby increasing the revenue that each sales person generates for the company.

In media revenue, synergy is the promotion and sale of a product throughout the various subsidiaries of a media conglomerate, e.g. films, soundtracks, or video games.

Financial
Financial synergy gained by the combined firm is a result of number of benefits which flow to the entity as a consequence of acquisition and merger. These benefits may be:

Cash slack
This is when a firm having number of cash extensive projects acquires a firm which is cash-rich, thus enabling the new combined firm to enjoy the profits from investing the cash of one firm in the projects of the other.

Debt capacity
If two firms have no or little capacity to carry debt before individually, it is possible for them to join and gain the capacity to carry the debt through decreased gearing (leverage). This creates value for the firm, as debt is thought to be a cheaper source of finance.

Tax benefits
It is possible for one firm to have unused tax benefits which might be offset against the profits of another after combination, thus resulting in less tax being paid. However this greatly depends on the tax law of the country.

Management
Synergy in management and in relation to teamwork refers to the combined effort of individuals as participants of the team.[24] The condition that exists when the organization's parts interact to produce a joint effect that is greater than the sum of the parts acting alone. Positive or negative synergies can exist. In these cases, positive synergy has positive effects such as improved efficiency in operations, greater exploitation of opportunities, and improved utilization of resources. Negative synergy on the other hand has negative effects such as: reduced efficiency of operations, decrease in quality, underutilization of resources and disequilibrium with the external environment.

Cost
A cost synergy refers to the opportunity of a combined corporate entity to reduce or eliminate expenses associated with running a business. Cost synergies are realized by eliminating positions that are viewed as duplicate within the merged entity.[25] Examples include the headquarters office of one of the predecessor companies, certain executives, the human resources department, or other employees of the predecessor companies. This is related to the economic concept of economies of scale.

Synergistic action in economy
The synergistic action of the economic players lies within the economic phenomenon's profundity. The synergistic action gives different dimensions to competitiveness, strategy and network identity becoming an unconventional "weapon" which belongs to those who exploit the economic systems¡¯ potential in depth.[26]

Synergistic determinants
The synergistic gravity equation (SYNGEq), according to its complex ¡°title¡±, represents a synthesis of the endogenous and exogenous factors which determine the private and non-private economic decision makers to call to actions of synergistic exploitation of the economic network in which they operate. That is to say, SYNGEq constitutes a big picture of the factors/motivations which determine the entrepreneurs to contour an active synergistic network. SYNGEq includes both factors which character is changing over time (such as the competitive conditions), as well as classics factors, such as the imperative of the access to resources of the collaboration and the quick answers. The synergistic gravity equation (SINGEq) comes to be represented by the formula:[27]

¡ÆSYN.Act = ¡ÆR-*I(CRed+COOP++AUnimit.)*V(Cust.+Info.)*cc
where:

¡ÆSYN.Act = the sum of the synergistic actions adopted (by the economic actor)
¡Æ R- = the amount of unpurchased but necessary resources
ICRed = the imperative for cost reductions
ICOOP+ = the imperative for deep cooperation (functional interdependence)
IAUnimit. = the imperative for purchasing unimitable competitive advantages (for the economic actor)
VCust = the necessity of customer value in purchasing future profits and competitive advantages VInfo = the necessity of informational value in purchasing future profits and competitive advantages
cc = the specific competitive conditions in which the economic actor operates
Synergistic networks and systems
The synergistic network represents an integrated part of the economic system which, through the coordination and control functions (of the undertaken economic actions), agrees synergies. The networks which promote synergistic actions can be divided in horizontal synergistic networks and vertical synergistic networks.[28]

Synergy effects
The synergy effects are difficult (even impossible) to imitate by competitors and difficult to reproduce by their authors because these effects depend on the combination of factors with time-varying characteristics. The synergy effects are often called "synergistic benefits", representing the direct and implied result of the developed/adopted synergistic actions.[29]

Computers
Synergy can also be defined as the combination of human strengths and computer strengths, such as advanced chess. Computers can process data much more quickly than humans, but lack the ability to respond meaningfully to arbitrary stimuli.

Synergy in literature
Etymologically, the "synergy" term was first used around 1600, deriving from the Greek word ¡°synergos¡±, which means ¡°to work together¡± or ¡°to cooperate¡±. If during this period the synergy concept was mainly used in the theological field (describing ¡°the cooperation of human effort with divine will¡±), in the 19th and 20th centuries, "synergy" was promoted in physics and biochemistry, being implemented in the study of the open economic systems only in the 1960 and 1970s.[30]

In 1938, J. R. R. Tolkien wrote an essay titled On Fairy Stores, delivered at an Andrew Lang Lecture, and reprinted in his book, The Tolkien Reader, published in 1966. In it, he made two references to synergy, although he did not use that term. He wrote:

Faerie cannot be caught in a net of words; for it is one of its qualities to be indescribable, though not imperceptible. It has many ingredients, but analysis will not necessarily discover the secret of the whole.

And more succinctly, in a footnote, about the "part of producing the web of an intricate story", he wrote:

It is indeed easier to unravel a single thread ¡ª an incident, a name, a motive ¡ª than to trace the history of any picture defined by many threads. For with the picture in the tapestry a new element has come in: the picture is greater than, and not explained by, the sum of the component threads.

Synergy in the media
The informational synergies which can be applied also in media involve a compression of transmission, access and use of information¡¯s time, the flows, circuits and means of handling information being based on a complementary, integrated, transparent and coordinated use of knowledge.[31]

In media economics, synergy is the promotion and sale of a product (and all its versions) throughout the various subsidiaries of a media conglomerate,[32] e.g. films, soundtracks or video games. Walt Disney pioneered synergistic marketing techniques in the 1930s by granting dozens of firms the right to use his Mickey Mouse character in products and ads, and continued to market Disney media through licensing arrangements. These products can help advertise the film itself and thus help to increase the film's sales. For example, the Spider-Man films had toys of webshooters and figures of the characters made, as well as posters and games.[33] The NBC sitcom 30 Rock often shows the power of synergy, while also poking fun at the use of the term in the corporate world.[34] There are also different forms of synergy in popular card games like Yu-Gi-Oh!, Cardfight!! Vanguard, and Future Card Buddyfight.

Information theory
When multiple sources of information taken together provide more information than the sum of the information provided by each source alone, there is said to be a synergy in the sources. This in contrast to the case in which the sources provide less information, in which case there is said to be a redundancy in the sources.


Pupia gens
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
The gens Pupia was a plebeian family at ancient Rome. Members of this gens are mentioned as early as 409 BC, when Publius Pupius was one of the first plebeian quaestors, but over the course of centuries they achieved little of significance, and rarely held any of the higher offices of the Roman state.[1]


Contents
1	Origin
2	Praenomina
3	Branches and cognomina
4	Members
5	See also
6	References
7	Bibliography
Origin
The nomen Pupius seems to be derived from the Latin pupus, a child. From this it seems that the Pupii were Latins, and Chase classifies them among those gentes that either originated at Rome, or cannot be shown to have come from anywhere else.[2]

Praenomina
The Pupii favoured the praenomina Gnaeus, Lucius, and Marcus, all of which were common throughout Roman history. The only other praenomina found among the Pupii occurring in history are Publius, belonging to the first of this family to appear, and Aulus, appearing on coins.

Branches and cognomina
The only cognomen of the Pupii under the Republic is Rufus, red, usually referring to someone with red hair. This surname appears on coins of the Pupii bearing Greek inscriptions. The surname Piso, belonging to Marcus Pupius Piso, consul in 61 BC, was the result of his adoption from the Calpurnia gens.[1]

Members
This list includes abbreviated praenomina. For an explanation of this practice, see filiation.
Publius Pupius, elected one of the first plebeian quaestors in 409 BC.[3][4]
Gnaeus Pupius, one of the duumvirs appointed to begin construction of the Temple of Concord in 217 BC.[5][6]
Lucius Pupius, aedile in 185 BC, and praetor in 183, was assigned the province of Apulia. He was charged with investigating the celebration of the Bacchanalia, which had recently caused much panic at Rome.[7][8]
Marcus Pupius M. f., a senator in 129 BC. He was probably the same as the Marcus Pupius who adopted a Calpurnius Piso, since Cicero said he was "extremely old" when he did so.[9][10]
Marcus Pupius, an old man without living sons, adopted one of the Calpurnii Pisones, who became Marcus Pupius Piso Frugi Calpurnianus.[10]
Marcus Pupius Piso Frugi Calpurnianus, adopted by the elderly Marcus Pupius, was consul in 61 BC, and reluctantly called for a special court to try Publius Clodius Pulcher for profaning the mysteries of the Bona Dea. During the Civil War, he recruited troops for Gnaeus Pompeius at Delos.[11][12]
Gnaeus Pupius, a publican representing his comrades in Bithynia, received a recommendation from Cicero to his son-in-law, Furius Crassipes, who was quaestor in Bithynia in 51 BC.[13]
Lucius Pupius, a primus pilus captured by Caesar at the beginning of the Civil War in 49 BC. Caesar released him unharmed.[14]
Pupius, a Roman tragedian whose work has been entirely lost. Horace mentions Pupius' "lachrymose poetry" in one of his letters.[15]
Aulus Pupius Rufus, known from his coins, appears to have been quaestor in Cyrene.[16]


Joan Chelimo
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Joan Chelimo Melly (born 10 November 1990) is a Kenyan female long-distance runner who competes in road running competitions. She is the 2018 Prague Half Marathon Champion and the winner of other prestigious road races such as Berlin Half Marathon, Boston 10K and Boston Half Marathon.


Contents
1	Career
2	Personal life
3	Road race wins
4	Personal bests
5	References
6	External links
Career
Chelimo ran 1500 metres while at school, going up to the National Championship level. She began to compete in small road races in 2011, mainly running in Spain and Morocco for the next 3 years. During that period, she won several races, including the Valencia 10K in a course record of 32:17[1] and the OCP 10K Int¡¯l de Khouribga where she set a then 31:41 personal best over the 10K distance.[2]

She ended her 2014 season with 3 consecutive victories, winning Wachau Half Marathon in 1:11:52, Swansea 10K and Cardiff Half Marathon.[3]

Due to pregnancy, she skipped the 2015 season and returned to competition in September 2016 by placing sixth at the Kericho 10K.[4]

Chelimo made a strong comeback on the international scene by winning the 2017 Berlin Half Marathon in 1:08:45.[5] In May, she finished second at Le Puy-en-Velay 15K[6] before winning Boston 10K in a new best of 31:24[7] In September, she ended up second at the Copenhagen Half Marathon after leading most of the race, clocking a new personal best of 1:06:25, the seventh fastest time of the year.[8] She came back to Boston in October and won her second Boston Athletic Association event of the year by taking a commanding victory at the Boston Half Marathon in 1:10:31.[9]

2018 started very well for Chelimo with a strong victory at the Elgeyo-Marakwet County Cross Country Championship.[10] Three weeks later she became the ninth woman to ever run a half marathon under sixty-six minutes, finishing fourth at Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon with a new personal best of 1:05:37 in a race widely regarded as the greatest women¡¯s half marathon ever held.[11] Following her excellent performances and after going out under world-record pace for about seventeen kilometers, Chelimo won the 2018 Prague Half Marathon in 1:05:04, becoming the 4th fastest women of all-time over the distance.[12] In september, she ended-up third at the Copenhagen Half Marathon after taking out the race at world-record pace for fifteen kilometer and getting overtake by dutch athlete Sifan Hassan in the last two kilometers of the race. [13] She then went on to win the 2018 Boston Half Marathon, defending her title and winning the race for the second consecutive time in 1:09:34. [14] She won her last race of the season with ease at the Montferland Run.[15]


Personal life
She is married and has a daughter named Ariana.[16] She trains and lives in Iten.

Road race wins
Year	Competition	Venue	Position	Event	Notes
2011	Torrevieja Half Marathon	Torrevieja, Spain	1st	Half marathon	1:18:16
Alicante Half Marathon	Alicante, Spain	1st	Half marathon	1:17:50
Bilbao 15K	Bilbao, Spain	1st	15K	53:43
Crevillentina 10K	Crevillentina, Spain	1st	10K	33:56
2012	Khouribga 10K	Khouribga, Morocco	1st	10K	31:41 CR
Bilbao 15K	Bilbao, Spain	1st	15K	53:52
Valencia 10K	Valencia, Spain	1st	10K	32:17 CR
2014	Mohamm¨¦dia 10K	Mohamm¨¦dia, Morocco	1st	10K	31:58
Wachau Half Marathon	Krems an der Donau, Austria	1st	Half marathon	1:11:52
Swansea 10K	Swansea, United Kingdom	1st	10K	33:04
Cardiff Half Marathon	Cardiff, United Kingdom	1st	Half marathon	1:12:26
2017	Berlin Half Marathon	Berlin, Germany	1st	Half marathon	1:08:45
Boston 10K	Boston, USA	1st	10K	31:24
Boston Half Marathon	Boston, USA	1st	Half marathon	1:10:31
2018	Prague Half Marathon	Prague, Czech Republic	1st	Half marathon	1:05:04
Kisii Half Marathon	Kisii, KEN	1st	Half Marathon	1:10:25
Boston Half Marathon	Boston, USA	1st	Half Marathon	1:09:34
Montferland Run	's-Heerenberg, NED	1st	15K	48:44
Personal bests
5K ¨C 14:51 (2018)
10K ¨C 30:14 (2018)
15K ¨C 45:54 (2018)
Half marathon ¨C 1:05:04 (2018)


Paul Russell (baseball)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Paul Russell
Outfielder/Second Baseman/Third Baseman
Born: March 23, 1871
Reading, Pennsylvania
Died: October 8, 1957 (aged 86)
Norristown, Pennsylvania
Batted: Unknown	Threw: Unknown
MLB debut
July 29, 1894, for the St. Louis Browns
Last MLB appearance
August 4, 1894, for the St. Louis Browns
MLB statistics
Games played	3
At bats	10
Hits	1
Teams
St. Louis Browns (1894)
Paul A. Russell (born Benjamin Paul Sheeder) (1871¨C1957) was an outfielder/infielder in Major League Baseball. He played for the St. Louis Browns in 1894. After his brief MLB appearance he played in the minors from 1896 to 1900 in the Central Pennsylvania League, Interstate League, New England League and Atlantic League. He was also a player/manager in the Interstate League in 1897 and 1898.


Anthony D'Andrea
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Anthony D'Andrea
Born	Antonio D'Andrea
June 7, 1872
Valledolmo, Sicily, Italy
Died	May 12, 1921 (aged 48)
Chicago, Cook County, Illinois, U.S.
Occupation	Priest, Translator, Politician, Gangster
Years active	1902¨C1921
Spouse(s)	Carolina Wagner (1899¨C1921)
Anthony D'Andrea (June 7, 1872 ¨C May 12, 1921) was the Mafia boss of Chicago in the late 1910s to early 1920s. He was also a Democrat and a political leader who was a president of the Unione Siciliana and was involved in a heated battle for alderman. D'Andrea was killed by an assassin's bullet in 1921.


Contents
1	Early life
2	The middle years
3	Later years
4	References
5	Further reading
Early life
Born Antonio D'Andrea in Valledolmo, Sicily, in 1872 to a large family, he studied law at the University of Palermo in Palermo, Sicily. In 1897, D'Andrea immigrated to the United States, briefly settling in Buffalo, New York. He later attended seminary at St. Mary's Academy in Baltimore and St. Bonaventura's Academy in Allegheny, Pennsylvania. In June, 1899, D'Andrea moved to Chicago, where he was ordained a priest and appointed pastor of St. Anthony's Italian (Independent) Catholic Church under Bishop Antoni Kozlowski [pl]. His brother Orazio (Horace) also became a priest.

In Chicago, D'Andrea met a young German woman, Carolina "Lena" Wagner. D'Andrea fell in love with Lena, left the priesthood, and married her in Milwaukee. However, after their marriage, Lena suddenly disappeared. D'Andrea suspected that the people who sheltered Lena after her parents' deaths were holding her. With help from the police, D'Andrea and Lena were reunited. Now that he was no longer a priest, D'Andrea decided to become a teacher of modern languages. His brother Louis also left the priesthood and married.[1]

The middle years
D'Andrea, because of his education, assisted other Italian immigrants with legal issues and worked as a professional translator. At some point, D'Andrea became involved with the Mafia, either in Sicily or the United States. While it is not known if there have been members of the clergy who were also Mafiosi in America, it has been known to occur in Sicily. In 1902, soon after his marriage, D'Andrea was arrested as the leader of a counterfeiting gang. After his arrest, D'Andrea initially blamed Lena for the crime. While awaiting trial, some authorities forgot that D'Andrea was in custody in Chicago and thought he had been murdered in New York City in the 1903 barrel murders. D'Andrea was convicted in Chicago and sent to Joliet State Prison. His family and supporters started a letter-writing campaign to the federal government for his release. After 13 months in prison, D'Andrea was released. D'Andrea continued to work as a translator while also increasing his power within the Mafia.

Later years
In 1911, D'Andrea co-owned a company with Martin Merlo, a brother of close associate Mike Merlo, at 20 East 31st Street in Chicago. That same year Joseph D'Andrea (no relation to Anthony) was elected president of Local 286 of the International Hod Carriers' Building and Construction Union. Joseph appointed Anthony as the local treasurer and business agent. Joseph, a friend and associate of South Side Gang boss James Colosimo, allegedly introduced labor racketeering into his union. On September 16, 1914, a man walked up to Joseph and said, "I know you." As Joseph reached out to shake the stranger's hand, the man shot Joseph in the leg (other reports say the stomach) with a double-barreled shotgun. Joseph died shortly thereafter and Anthony became the new local president.[1]

It was also around this time that he became the Mafia boss of Chicago, following the murder of the previous leader. At one point, several young men committed certain crimes without D'Andrea's permission, and he ordered their deaths. One of them, identified only as Paolinello, sought refuge in Pittsburgh with Mafia boss Nicola Gentile. Gentile persuaded D'Andrea to allow Paolinello to join the Pittsburgh crime family. Gentile would later describe D'Andrea as a terrible and fearful man.

In 1916, D'Andrea ran for the office of alderman in the so-called "Bloody Nineteenth" ward of Chicago. The Nineteenth ward, home to many Italian immigrants, suffered from a very high homicide rate, due to a large number of "honor killings" and Black Hand murders. D'Andrea's opponent was a man called James Bowler. Before election day, D'Andrea dropped out of the race because the Chicago Tribune and other local newspapers had exposed his criminal past.[2]

In 1919, D'Andrea became president of the Chicago head chapter of the Unione Siciliana, a charitable organization dedicated to helping poor Sicilian immigrants. However, D'Andrea used the Union as another means to increase his political base. He also ran for ward committeeman in the 19th. After he was elected, the Illinois Supreme Court negated the election and D'Andrea lost the support of John Powers, one of the ward's aldermen.[3] D'Andrea then decided to run again for alderman against Powers. Powers was an Irish saloon-keeper who had been alderman since 1888. He was popular with the Italian community, and this led to the so-called Aldermen's Wars. Murders and bombings became political weapons. The violence reached such a point that D'Andrea condemned it and dropped out of the race. In the early morning hours of May 11, 1921, D'Andrea was shot while entering his apartment, and died the next day at Jefferson Park Hospital.[4]

Mike Merlo, who was vacationing in Italy when he heard the news, immediately ordered the assassin's murder. After his return to Chicago, Merlo became the Mafia boss and Unione Siciliana president. D'Andrea's nephew, Philip D'Andrea, later became a member of (the Chicago Outfit) under boss Al Capone.[5]


Ludwig Mond
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Ludwig Mond
Ludwig Mond by Solomon Joseph Solomon.jpg
Portrait of Ludwig Mond by Solomon Joseph Solomon, circa 1909
Born	7 March 1839
Kassel, Hesse-Kassel, Germany
Died	11 December 1909 (aged 70)
Regent's Park, London, England
Residence	Germany, Netherlands, England
Nationality	German, British by naturalisation
Alma mater	University of Marburg
University of Heidelberg
Known for	Commercial use of the Solvay process
Discovery of nickel carbonyl
Spouse(s)	Frida L?wenthal
Children	Robert Mond 
Alfred Mond, 1st Baron Melchett
Awards	Grand cordon of the Order of the Crown of Italy
Scientific career
Fields	Chemist
Institutions	Brunner Mond & Company
Mond Nickel Company
Doctoral advisor	Hermann Kolbe
Robert Bunsen
Ludwig Mond (7 March 1839 ¨C 11 December 1909[1]) was a German-born chemist and industrialist[2] who took British nationality. He discovered an important, previously-unknown class of compounds called metal carbonyls.


Contents
1	Education and career
2	Honours and benefactions
3	Family and personal
4	See also
5	References
6	Further reading
Education and career
Ludwig Mond was born into a Jewish family in Kassel, Germany. His parents were Meyer B?r (Moritz) Mond and Henrietta Levinsohn. After attending schools in his home town, he studied chemistry at the University of Marburg under Hermann Kolbe and at the University of Heidelberg under Robert Bunsen but he never gained a degree.[3] He then worked in factories in Germany and the Netherlands before coming to England to work at the factory of John Hutchinson & Co in Widnes in 1862. He worked in Utrecht for the firm of P. Smits & de Wolf from 1864 to 1867 and then returned to Widnes. Here he formed a partnership with John Hutchinson and developed a method to recover sulphur from the by-products of the Leblanc process, which was used to manufacture soda.[4]

In 1872 Mond got in touch with the Belgian industrialist Ernest Solvay who was developing a better process to manufacture soda, the ammonia-soda or Solvay process. The following year he went into partnership with the industrialist John Brunner to work on bringing the process to commercial viability. They established the business of Brunner Mond & Company, building a factory at Winnington, Northwich. Mond solved some of the problems in the process that had made mass production difficult, and by 1880 he had turned it into a commercially sound process.[3] Within 20 years the business had become the largest producer of soda in the world.[4]

Mond continued to research new chemical processes. He discovered nickel carbonyl, a previously unknown compound and the first-discovered in the class of metal carbonyls, which could be easily decomposed to produce pure nickel from its ores through the Mond process.[5] He founded the Mond Nickel Company to exploit this. Ores from nickel mines in Canada were given preliminary enrichment there and then shipped to Mond's works at Clydach, near Swansea, Wales for final purification.[4]

Honours and benefactions
Mond supported scientific societies and, with Henry Roscoe, helped to expand the small Lancashire Chemical Society into the nationwide Society of Chemical Industry of which he was elected president in 1888. He was elected to the Royal Society in 1891. Abroad, he was elected to membership of the German Chemical Society, the Societ¨¤ Reale of Naples, and the Prussian Akademie der Wissenschaften. He received honorary doctorates from the universities of Padua, Heidelberg, Manchester and Oxford and was awarded the grand cordon of the Order of the Crown of Italy.[4]

He was a benefactor to a number of scientific organisations including the Royal Society, the Italian Accademia dei Lincei and the Royal Institution of Great Britain. In his will he left bequests to the town of Kassel and to a number of Jewish charities. In his later years he had built up a collection of old master paintings and he left the greater proportion of these to the National Gallery, London.[4] His wife left a large collection of materials relating to German literature to King's College, London.[6]

The Royal Society of Chemistry awards the Ludwig Mond Award in his honour.[7]

Family and personal

Ludwig Mond (right) as a member of the Corps Rhenania Heidelberg, ca. 1856
In October 1866 Mond married his cousin Frida L?wenthal (1847¨C1923) in her native town of Cologne. They soon moved to England and had two sons, Robert and Alfred. In 1880 he took British nationality. While he was establishing his business the family lived at Winnington and in 1884 they moved to London. From the early 1890s on, he spent most of his winters in Rome at his home there. This home, the Palazzo Zuccari, was first leased and then (1904) bought in the name of his wife's friend Henriette Hertz, who developed it into a study centre for the history of art now called Bibliotheca Hertziana. He died in his London home, 'The Poplars', Avenue Road, near Regent's Park. Although he had never practised any religion he was buried with Jewish rites at St Pancras cemetery where his sons erected a mausoleum. His estate was valued at ¡ê1 million.[4]


Vic Woodley
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Vic Woodley
Personal information
Full name	Victor Robert Woodley
Date of birth	26 February 1910
Place of birth	Slough, England
Date of death	23 October 1978 (aged 68)
Playing position	Goalkeeper
Senior career*
Years	Team	Apps	(Gls)
19??¨C1931	Windsor & Eton		
1931¨C1945	Chelsea	252	(0)
1946	Derby County	30	(0)
National team
1937¨C1939	England	19	(0)
* Senior club appearances and goals counted for the domestic league only
Victor Robert Woodley (26 February 1910 ¨C 23 October 1978) was an English football goalkeeper who played for both Chelsea and the England national team between the wars.

Woodley was spotted by a Chelsea scout whilst playing for Windsor & Eton and signed for the club in 1931, making his debut the same year.[1] Woodley was a member of the glamorous Chelsea side of the 1930s, playing alongside the likes of Hughie Gallacher, Alex Jackson and Alec Cheyne. Known for his reliability and his impressive sense of anticipation, Woodley's performances were often key to preserving Chelsea's First Division status with his high-profile teammates invariably failing to live up to expectations. So reliable was he that he kept John Jackson, Scotland's first choice goalkeeper, out of the Chelsea side.[2]

Woodley won nineteen caps for England - all consecutive, a record at the time - and in an era when there was stiff competition for the England goakeeping jersey from Harry Hibbs, George Tweedy and Frank Swift. Woodley was a member of the England side which toured Nazi Germany in 1938, performing the Hitler salute before the match at the Olympiastadion. His international career was ended prematurely by the outbreak of the Second World War.

Woodley briefly resumed his playing career with Chelsea after the War, playing in their famous friendly match against Soviet side, Dynamo Moscow, but left on a free transfer shortly afterwards and joined Bath City.[3] An injury crisis among Derby County's goalkeepers saw Woodley return to the First Division early in 1946, making a further 30 league appearances. Woodley's career also ended on a high note, as he kept goal during Derby's 4-1 FA Cup final win over Charlton Athletic.

He died in October 1978.[4]


Chaminda Gamage
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Chaminda Gamage
Personal information
Born	4 February 1987 (age 32)
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Source: Cricinfo, 10 November 2017
Chaminda Gamage (born 4 February 1987) is a Sri Lankan cricketer.[1] He made his first-class debut for Chilaw Marians Cricket Club in the 2014¨C15 Premier Trophy on 13 March 2015.[2]


Emily Dobson
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Emily Dobson
Born	Emily Lempriere
10 October 1842
Port Arthur, Tasmania
Died	5 June 1934 (aged 91)
Hobart, Tasmania
Resting place	Queenborough Cemetery
Nationality	Australian
Spouse(s)	Henry Dobson
Emily Dobson (10 October 1842 ¨C 5 June 1934) was an Australian philanthropist. She was known for her work supporting women's charities.


Contents
1	Early life
2	Philanthropy work
3	References
4	External links
Early life
Dobson was born in Port Arthur, Tasmania on 10 October 1842 to Thomas James Lempriere and Charlotte Lempriere n¨¦e Smith. She was educated at home by her father. She married lawyer and politician, Henry Dobson, at the Bothwell Church of England on 4 February 1868.[1]

Philanthropy work
Dobson began her philanthropy work after her husband was elected to the Parliament of Tasmania in 1891.[2] She became secretary of the Women's Sanitary Association in September 1891 which was founded to fight an outbreak of typhoid in Hobart. The group petitioned Hobart local council and ran candidates for the municipal election of 1892, alongside the men's Sanitary and General Improvement Association.[1]

In 1892 she founded the Ministering Children's League and in 1898 founded the ladies' committee of the Blind, Deaf and Dumb Institution. Dobson also supported nursing institutions and was one of the founders of the New Town Consumptives' Sanatorium in 1905 as well as being a life-long patron of the Tasmanian Bush Nursing Association.[1]

Dobson was also a supporter of temperance and was the vice-president of the Women's Christian Temperance Union of Tasmania.[1]

In 1899, she became vice-president of the newly founded National Council of Women of Tasmania and attended the 1899 International Council of Women meeting in London and was a delegate at the International Woman Suffrage Alliance Congress in Amsterdam in 1908.[3] In 1919, the National Council of Women of Tasmania established the Emily Dobson Philanthropic Prize in recognition of her work.[2]

Dobson died in Hobart on 5 June 1934 and was buried in Queenborough cemetery.[1]


Danny Ryan
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Danny Ryan
Personal information
Irish name	D¨®nall ¨® Riain
Sport	Hurling
Position	Forward
Born	1 May 1870
Littleton, County Tipperary, Ireland
Died	31 December 1966 (aged 96)
Littleton, County Tipperary, Ireland
Occupation	Farmer
Club(s)
Years	Club
Moycarkey-Borris
Inter-county(ies)
Years	County
1887	Tipperary
Inter-county titles
All-Irelands	1
Daniel "Danny" Ryan (1 May 1870 ¨C 31 December 1966) was an Irish hurler who played as a forward for the Tipperary senior team.

Ryan lined out for the team for just one season during the inaugural 1887 championship. He enjoyed much success that year, winning an All-Ireland medal as Tipp claimed the very first championship title.[1]

At club level Ryan played with Moycarkey-Borris.


A. Kimball Romney
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
Find sources: "A. Kimball Romney" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (March 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Antone Kimball Romney (born August 15, 1925) is an American social sciences professor and one of the founders of cognitive anthropology.[citation needed] He spent most of his career at the University of California, Irvine.[1]

Romney was born in Rexburg, Idaho in August 1925. He received his B.A. from Brigham Young University (1947) in sociology, his M.A. from Brigham Young University (1948) also in sociology, his Ph.D. from Harvard University (1956) in Social Anthropology, Social Relations Department. 1955?56 Assistant Professor, at the University of Chicago. 1957?60 Assistant Professor, Stanford University. 1960?66 Associate Professor, Stanford University. 1960?65 Director, Anthropological Research, Stanford University. 1966?68 Professor, Harvard University. 1969?71 Dean, School of Social Sciences, University of California, Irvine. 1969-1995 Professor, University of California, Irvine. 1995- Research Professor, University of California, Irvine. 1956?57 Fellow, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford. 1994 - Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 1995- Member, National Academy of Sciences.[2]

Kimball Romney was a son of Antone Kimball Romney (1902¨C1982) and a member of the Pratt-Romney family.


Santa Cruz Youth Union
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
The Santa Cruz Youth Union (Uni¨®n Juvenil Cruce?ista) (UJC) is a movement based in Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Founded in 1957 as an arm of the Pro Santa Cruz Committee (Comite Pro Santa Cruz)[6], the UJC has recently become the subject of controversy and accusation concerning its activities in support of the Santa Cruz autonomy movement in opposition to the government of Evo Morales and his MAS political party.[1]

Claiming a membership of more than two thousand, the UJC has violently enforced general civic strikes called for by the Pro Santa Cruz Committee,[2] intimidated and assaulted leftist political opponents,[3] and provided security for the 4 May Santa Cruz Autonomy referendum,[4] participating in violent clashes the day of the vote.[5] Two members of the UJC were arrested and accused of plotting to assassinate Morales on 20 June 2008, when encountered by police in possession of a rifle, scope, and ammunition in Santa Cruz prior to the president's flight arrival.[6] Some sources claimed that they were captured at the airport, but others located the suspects in a popular market.[7] Nevertheless, the prosecutor dismissed the case and they were both released shortly afterwards.[7]


Shield nickel
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Shield nickel
United States
Value	5 cents (0.05 US dollars)
Mass	5.000 g (0.1615 troy oz)
Diameter	20.50 mm (0.8077 in)
Edge	Plain
Composition	
75% copper
25% nickel
Years of minting	1866¨C1883
Obverse
Shield nickel obverse by Howard Spindel.png
Design	Shield representing the United States
Designer	James B. Longacre
Design date	1866
Reverse
Shield nickel with rays by Howard Spindel.png
Design	Denomination surrounded by stars, separated by rays
Designer	James B. Longacre
Design date	1866
Design discontinued	1867
Shield nickel without rays reverse by Howard Spindel.png
Design	Denomination surrounded by stars, rays removed
Designer	James B. Longacre
Design date	1867
Design discontinued	1883
The Shield nickel was the first United States five-cent piece to be made out of copper-nickel, the same alloy of which American nickels are struck today. Designed by James B. Longacre, the coin was issued from 1866 until 1883, when it was replaced by the Liberty Head nickel. The coin takes its name from the motif on its obverse, and was the first five-cent coin referred to as a "nickel"¡ªsilver pieces of that denomination had been known as half dimes.

Silver half dimes had been struck from the early days of the United States Mint in the late 18th century. Those disappeared from circulation, along with most other coins, in the economic turmoil of the Civil War. In 1864, the Mint successfully introduced low-denomination coins, whose intrinsic worth did not approach their face value. Industrialist Joseph Wharton advocated coins containing nickel¡ªa metal in which he had significant financial interests. When the Mint proposed a copper-nickel five-cent piece, Congress required that the coin be heavier than the Mint had suggested, allowing Wharton to sell more of the metal to the government.

Longacre's design was based on his two-cent pieces, and symbolizes the strength of a unified America. The nickel proved difficult to strike and the reverse, or tails, design was modified in 1867. Even so, production difficulties continued, causing many minor varieties which are collected today. Minting of the Shield nickel for circulation was suspended in 1876 for a period of over two years due to a glut of low-denomination coinage and it was struck in only small quantities until 1882. The following year, the coin was replaced by Charles E. Barber's Liberty head design.


Contents
1	Background and authorization
2	Design and production
2.1	Varieties
3	Replacement
4	Mintages
5	See also
6	References
7	Bibliography
8	External links
Background and authorization
Five-cent pieces had been struck by the United States Mint since 1792. They were the first coins struck by Mint authorities.[1] These half dimes (originally spelled "half dismes"), were struck in silver. The alloy used was originally .892 silver with the remainder copper; in 1837 the silver portion was increased to .900.[2]

The Civil War caused most American coins to vanish from circulation, with the gap filled by such means as merchant tokens, encased postage stamps, and United States fractional currency, issued in denomination as low as three cents. Although specie (gold or silver coins) was hoarded or exported, the copper-nickel cent, then the only base metal denomination being struck, also vanished.[3] In 1864, Congress began the process of restoring coins to circulation by abolishing the three-cent note and authorizing bronze cents and two-cent pieces, with low intrinsic values, to be struck.[4] These new coins initially proved popular, though the two-cent piece soon faded from circulation. On March 3, 1865, Congress passed legislation authorizing the Mint to strike three-cent pieces of 75% copper and 25% nickel.[4]

In 1864, Congress had authorized a third series of fractional currency notes. The five-cent note was to bear a portrait of "Clark", but Congress was appalled when the issue came out not bearing a portrait of William Clark, the explorer, but Spencer M. Clark, head of the Currency Bureau. According to numismatic historian Walter Breen, Congress's "immediate infuriated response was to pass a law retiring the 5¡é denomination, and another to forbid portrayal of any living person on federal coins or currency."[5] Clark only kept his job because of the personal intervention of Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase.[5]

Mint Director James Pollock had been opposed to striking coins containing nickel but in view of the initial success of the copper-nickel three-cent piece, he became an advocate of striking five-cent pieces in the same metal. In his 1865 report Pollock wrote, "From this nickel alloy, a coin for the denomination of five cents, and which would be a popular substitute for the five cent note, could easily be made ... [The five cent coin should be struck in base metal] only until the resumption of specie payments ... in time of peace ... coins of inferior alloy should not be permitted to take the place permanently of silver in the coinage of pieces above the denomination of three cents."[6]

A bronze coin with a shield in the center, dated 1865.
Longacre's two-cent piece; its design was the basis for the Shield nickel.
Industrialist Joseph Wharton had a near-monopoly on the mining of nickel in the United States and sought to promote its use in coinage.[7] He was also highly influential in Congress. His friends there, though they had failed to obtain the metal's use for the two-cent piece, had been more successful with the three-cent coin.[8] Pollock prepared a bill authorizing a five-cent coin of the same alloy as the three-cent piece and a total weight not to exceed 60 grains (3.9 g). At the committee stage in the House of Representatives, the weight was amended to 77.19 grains (5.00 g), ostensibly to make the weight equal to five grams in the metric system[a] but more likely so that Wharton could sell more nickel.[6] This made the new coin heavy in comparison to the three-cent copper-nickel coin. The bill passed without debate on May 16, 1866.[6] The new copper-nickel coin was legal tender for up to one dollar, and would be paid out by the Treasury in exchange for coin of the United States, excluding the half cent, cent and two-cent. It was redeemable in lots of $100 for banknotes. Fractional currency in denominations of less than ten cents was withdrawn.[9][10]

Design and production
Since coinage was to begin immediately, it was necessary for the Mint's chief engraver, James B. Longacre to prepare a design as quickly as possible.[11] With the five cent authorization bill pending in Congress, Longacre had produced patterns as early as late 1865.[12] Longacre produced pattern coins, one with a shield similar to the design he had prepared for the two-cent piece.[11] Longacre altered the two-cent design by shifting the location of the two arrows in the design, removed the scroll on which "In God We Trust" had been inscribed (the first time that motto had appeared on a U.S. coin), and added a cross, apparently intending a pattee to the top of the shield.[b] Another pattern depicted Washington, while another showed the recently assassinated president, Abraham Lincoln. Reverse designs proposed by Longacre included one with a number 5 within a circle of thirteen stars, each separated from the next by rays. Another reverse design featured the numeral within a wreath.[11] Treasury Secretary Hugh McCulloch, acting on Pollock's recommendation, selected the shield design for the obverse, or "heads" side, and the stars and rays design for the reverse. Pollock did not show McCulloch the Lincoln design, believing it would not be well received in the South.[b]

A daguerrotype of an elderly man with startling white curly hair standing out from both sides of his head.
James Barton Longacre
According to numismatic author Q. David Bowers, Longacre's obverse design is "one of the most patriotic motifs in American coinage".[13] Based on the coat of arms from the Great Seal of the United States of America, Longacre's design focused on the shield, or escutcheon as a defensive weapon, symbolizing strength and self-protection through unity. The upper part of the shield, or "chief", symbolizes Congress, while the 13 vertical stripes, or "paleways" symbolize the states; consequently the entire escutcheon symbolizes the strength of the federal government through the unity of the states.[14] The crossed arrows, whose ends are visible near the bottom of the shield, symbolize nonaggression, but imply readiness against attack. The laurel branches, taken from Greek tradition, symbolize victory.[14] In heraldic engraving, vertical lines represent red, clear areas white and horizontal lines blue, thus the escutcheon is colored red, white and blue and is meant to evoke the American flag. Bowers does not consider the reverse design an artistic work, but one which is purely mechanical, obtained by punching characters and devices into a steel hub.[13]

The new coins proved difficult to produce; due to the hardness of the planchet, the coins were not of high quality and the life of the striking dies was brief. The design of the coins was widely criticized, with Wharton describing the shield design as suggesting "a tombstone surmounted by a cross and overhung by weeping willows."[15] The American Journal of Numismatics described it as "the ugliest of all known coins".[15] More seriously, the reverse design reminded many of the "stars and bars" motif of the defeated Confederate States.[10] The rays were eliminated from the design in early 1867, in the hopes of eliminating some of the production problems.[16] The transition to the new design was to occur on February 1, 1867, but it is likely the mint used up the remaining dies with the old design in the interest of economy.[17] The design change created confusion among the population, with many people assuming one design or the other was a counterfeit, and the Mint considered abandoning the shield design entirely.[11] | Seeking alternatives to the difficult-to-work copper-nickel alloy, in June 1867 Longacre proposed that the five-cent piece be struck in aluminum. The new Mint director, Henry Linderman, objected to the proposal, stating that the price and supply of aluminum were as yet uncertain, and that the metal was too expensive to use in a minor coin. Numismatic historian Don Taxay, in his history of the United States Mint and its coins, noted that Linderman had proposed legislation increasing the proportion of nickel in the alloy to a third despite having earlier opposed the use of nickel in coins. Taxay suggested that Linderman was most likely influenced by Wharton and the metal's other advocates.[18]

Pattern coin by James B. Longacre when the Mint was considering replacing the Shield nickel in 1867. From the collection of the Money Museum of the American Numismatic Association, Colorado Springs, CO
1867 "Indian Head" pattern
By late 1869, enough nickels, as the coin came to be called, had been produced to meet the needs of commerce, and production dropped off.[19] The new coins tended to accumulate in the hands of merchants beyond the legal tender limit, but banks refused to accept them beyond the one-dollar maximum. Storeowners were forced to discount the coins to brokers.[10] Postmasters, compelled by law to accept the coins, found that the Treasury would not accept them as deposits except in lots of $100, in accordance with the authorizing statute.[20] In 1871, Congress alleviated the problem by passing legislation allowing the Treasury to redeem unlimited quantities of nickels and other low-denomination coins when presented in lots of not less than $20.[10] It would not be until 1933, long after the shield design passed from the scene, that the nickel was made legal tender without limit.[19]

The Mint Act of 1873 ended the production of the half dime.[21] Despite the abolition, the silver pieces continued to circulate in the West, where silver or gold coins were preferred, and the nickel was disliked, throughout the remainder of the 19th century.[10] The act also gave the Mint Director the authority to suspend production of any denomination if additional coins were not needed. Improved economic conditions, combined with low silver prices, brought large quantities of hoarded silver coinage, including half dimes, into circulation beginning in April 1876.[22] In late 1876, production of the Shield nickel was halted under the 1873 act.[23] No Shield nickels were struck in 1877 or 1878, excepting proof specimens for collectors.[10] As the Treasury had a large stock of nickels in storage, only small numbers were struck over the next few years; full-scale production began again on December 12, 1881. The 1880 nickel, with only 16,000 pieces struck for circulation, remains the rarest non-proof Shield nickel today.[24]

Varieties
A closeup of part of an 1873 Shield nickel, showing the date, in which the arms of the "3" reach close to each other
1873 "closed 3" variety
A closeup of part of an 1873 Shield nickel; the arms of the "3" curve only slightly towards each other
1873 "open 3" variety
The Shield nickel series has yielded a large number of varieties. Howard Spindel, a leading expert on Shield nickels, notes that Shield nickel dies produced far fewer coins than other coin dies, as the dies wore out so fast that the Mint was continually under great pressure to produce new ones. According to Spindel, many dies were hastily and carelessly produced, producing numerous minor varieties.[25]

Bowers points to the 1868 nickel as "a playground for repunching [repunched dates], errors, and the like".[25] Specialists have found more than sixty different doubled die varieties, caused by misalignment when the heated die was repeatedly pressed against the hub to transfer the design. There are several different kinds of repunched dates, including a variety in which the numeral "1" is much smaller than usually found on the Shield nickel.[26]

As with many denominations of United States coins, there are two major varieties of the 1873 piece. The initial variety, known as the "close 3" or "closed 3" was struck first. These coins led to a complaint by the chief coiner, A. Loudon Snowden, to Pollock, who was again director of the Mint. Snowden stated that the numeral "3" in the date too closely resembled an "8". The Mint prepared new date punches, in which the arms of the 3 did not curl around toward the center, creating the second variety, the "open 3".[27]

The final year of production saw an overdate, 1883/2, with a visible "2" under or near the digit "3". This variety was caused by the use of 1882-dated dies which were not destroyed at the end of the year, but were instead repunched with a four-digit logotype, "1883". Five different dies are known to have been so reused, and Bowers estimates a mintage of 118,975 pieces. Spindel estimates that only 0.2%¨C0.3% of the pieces have survived to the present.[28]

Replacement
The 1867 redesign of the reverse had not solved the problems of short die life and poor striking;[29] with a view to a redesign, pattern coins were struck in 1868 and 1871,[30] but the Shield nickel remained in production.[29] Charles E. Barber became chief engraver in 1880, and the following year was asked to produce uniform designs for the nickel, the three-cent piece, and a proposed copper-nickel cent. While the redesign of the two lower denominations did not occur, in 1882, Barber's design for the nickel, with the head of the goddess of Liberty on the obverse and the Roman numeral "V" on the reverse, was approved. The following year the Barber design replaced the Shield nickel.[31] The Barber design was first struck on Jan. 30, 1883 and placed in circulation Feb. 1, 1883. Mint officials desired to discourage hoarding and speculation of 1883 proof Shield nickels, and received permission on Feb. 6, 1883 to continue production of proof Shield nickels concurrent with proofs of the new Liberty Head nickel. Proof Shield nickels continued to be struck until June 26, 1883 when the last 1500 proof shield nickels were produced.[32]

Mintages
Year	Proofs	Circulation strikes
1866	600+	14,742,500[33]
1867 with rays	25+	2,019,000
1867 without rays	600+	28,890,500
1868	600+	28,817,000
1869	600+	16,395,000
1870	1,000+	4,806,000
1871	960+	561,000
1872	950+	6,036,000
1873 closed 3	1,100+	436,050 (est.)
1873 open 3	0	4,113,950 (est.)
1874	700+	3,538,000
1875	700+	2,097,000
1876	1,150+	2,530,000
1877 proof only	510+	0
1878 proof only	2,350	0
1879	3,200	25,900
1880	3,955	16,000
1881	3,575	68,800
1882	3,100	11,472,900
1883	5,419	1,451,500


New Home School and Church
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
New Home School and Church
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
New Home School and Church.JPG
New Home School and Church is located in ArkansasNew Home School and Church
Show map of Arkansas
Show map of the United States
Show all
Nearest city	Bella Vista, Arkansas
Coordinates	36¡ã24¡ä53¡åN 94¡ã13¡ä42¡åWCoordinates: 36¡ã24¡ä53¡åN 94¡ã13¡ä42¡åW
Area	less than one acre
Built	1900
MPS	Benton County MRA
NRHP reference #	87002357[1]
Added to NRHP	January 28, 1988
The New Home School and Church is a historic community building on McKisic Creek Road near Bella Vista, Arkansas. It is a modest single-story wood frame structure, with a gable roof, which lacks ornamentation. Its main facade has a double-door entrance, and the side facades have three bays of windows. Built c. 1900, it is a well-preserved example of a multifunction vernacular community building, which was used as a school during the week and as a church on Sundays. The school function was discontinued after schools in the area were consolidated.[2]

The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.[1]


Jerome B. Simandle
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Jerome B. Simandle
Senior Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
Incumbent
Assumed office 
May 31, 2017
Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
In office
January 2, 2012 ¨C May 31, 2017
Preceded by	Garrett Brown Jr.
Succeeded by	Jose L. Linares
Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey
In office
May 26, 1992 ¨C May 31, 2017
Appointed by	George H. W. Bush
Preceded by	Seat established by 104 Stat. 5089
Personal details
Born	Jerome B. Simandle
1949 (age 69¨C70)
Binghamton, New York
Education	Princeton University (B.S.E.)
University of Stockholm (Dip.)
University of Pennsylvania Law School (J.D.)
Jerome B. Simandle (born 1949) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.


Contents
1	Education and career
2	Federal judicial service
3	References
4	Sources
Education and career
Born in Binghamton, New York. Simandle received a Bachelor of Science in Engineering in 1971 from Princeton University. He received a Diploma in Social Science in 1975 from the University of Stockholm in Sweden. He received a Juris Doctor in 1976 from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. After graduating from law school, Simandle served as a law clerk to Judge John F. Gerry of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey for two years, and then as an Assistant United States Attorney at the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey. He was then a United States Magistrate in the same district for nine years.[1]

Federal judicial service
Simandle was nominated by President George H. W. Bush on April 1, 1992, to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey created by 104 Stat. 5089. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 21, 1992, and received his commission on May 26, 1992. He served as Chief Judge from January 2, 2012, until he assumed senior status on May 31, 2017.[1]


Dorothy Dworkin
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Dorothy Dworkin (n¨¦e Dorothy Goldstick; 1889 ¨C August 13, 1976) was a prominent Jewish Canadian nurse, businesswoman and philanthropist. In 2009, she was made a Person of National Historic Significance. She was involved in planning Toronto¡¯s first Jewish hospital where prospective Jewish doctors could work and study.[1]

Biography
Dorothy Dworkin was born to Wolf and Sara Goldstick in Windau, in the Courland Governorate of the Russian Empire (present-day Latvia).[1] She had six sisters and four brothers. In 1904, she immigrated with her family to Canada. In 1907, she chose to become a maternity nurse. She spent a year working under Dr. Kaufman and various of his colleagues until Dr. Kaufman suggested that she go to train at Mount Sinai Hospital, Cleveland, where she would train as a midwife.[2] Prior to leaving Toronto, she helped establish a free Jewish Dispensary located at Elizabeth Street near Agnes, which is now Dundas Street, with Ida Siegel and her brother Abe Lewis.[3] She was the dispensary's first nurse.[4] In 1909, she received a diploma from the Medical State Board of Ohio.[1]

In 1910, Dworkin helped form a Women¡¯s Auxiliary in Toronto with a group of missionaries, and became its first president.[4] The auxiliary would eventually grow into an orphanage.

In 1911, she married Henry Dworkin, a Ukrainian businessman who dealt motor accessories and was the founder of the Toronto Labour Lyceum.[3] In 1917, Henry opened a small variety store with his brother Edward named E&H. Dworkin Steamship and Bankers. The store eventually became a tobacco and shipping agency and was renamed Dworkin Travel.[5] It was located at 525 Dundas Street West.[3] Through the company the Dworkins enabled hundreds of Eastern European Jews to immigrate to Canada prior to World War II,[6] specifically from Poland, Romania, and Latvia.[5] After The Holocaust, they aided survivors in Canada and internationally.[6]

She ran the free Jewish Dispensary in Toronto, and provided health and social services to many immigrant Jews. In 1922, Dworkin helped establish the Toronto Jewish Convalescent and Maternity Hospital after the Toronto General Hospital refused to provide kosher meals and provide for the language needs of its Jewish patients. This institution was later renamed Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto.[6]

In 1928, her husband died by being fatally struck down by an automobile. It was estimated that as many as 20,000 people attended his funeral.[3] She took control of his business enterprises and became a leader in Toronto's Jewish community. She served as the secretary of the Jewish Labor Committee in the mid-1930s and was active in the Canadian Jewish Congress, ORT and Pioneer Women.[1] She also sat on a number of boards for Jewish organizations.[7]

Over the years, she also became the honorary president of the Sinais, a member of the Mount Sinai Hospital Board, president of the Continental Steamship Ticket Agents Association, a trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, and director of the Labour Lyceum.[3]

She had one daughter, Ellen Dworkin, born in 1912,[5] whom she and her husband affectionately called Honey.[3] Honey would marry Leon Arthurs, an attorney. Their son was Harry Arthurs, the Canadian academic.[1] In late 1925 when she was 13 years old, Ellen commissioned a portrait painting of herself from Frederick Varley that she wanted to present tor her mother as a surprise.[4] She raised funds to pay the fee from members of the Women's Auxiliary.[4]

Legacy
On 6 July 2009, Canada's Environment Minister Jim Prentice officially designated Dworkin as a Person of National Historic Significance:

"I am proud to name Dorothy Dworkin a Person of National Historic Significance in Canada. This designation will help to ensure that her important contributions to Canada's rich cultural heritage are appreciated and remembered by future generations."[7]

Jim Flaherty was in attendance and addressed the designation:

"This designation reminds us all of the contributions of this immigrant woman whose life and work illustrates the most noble of Canadian values."[7]

Jason Kenney also provided some words concerning Dworkin's contributions:

"The story of Dorothy Dworkin is a fine example of how immigrants influenced the history of Canada and helped make it the rich and diverse country it is today"[7]


David B. Audretsch
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
David B. Audretsch
Born	November 15, 1954 (age 64)
Nationality	United States
Institution	Indiana University
Field	Industrial organization 
Innovation
Alma mater	University of Wisconsin¨CMadison
Awards	2001 Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research, 2011 Schumpeter Prize
Information at IDEAS / RePEc
David Bruce Audretsch (born November 15, 1954) is an American Economist. He is a distinguished professor at the School of Public and Environmental Affairs (SPEA) at Indiana University and also serves as director of the SPEA International Office, Ameritech Chair of Economic Development, and director of SPEA's Institute for Development Strategies (IDS).[1] He is co-founder and co-editor of Small Business Economics: An Entrepreneurship Journal, and also works as a consultant to the United Nations, the World Bank, the OECD, the EU Commission, and the U.S. Department of State.[2] He was the Director of the Entrepreneurship, Growth and Public Policy Group at the Max Planck Institute of Economics in Germany from 2003-2009.[2]

Audretsch is a member of the advisory board to a number of international research and policy institutes, including chair of the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin, chair of the Foundation for the Promotion of German Science (Stifterverband f¨¹r die Deutsche Wissenschaft), New York Academy of Sciences, the Swedish Entrepreneurship Forum, and the Jackst?dt Centre for Entrepreneurship in Wuppertal, Germany.[2]

He has received honorary doctorate degrees from Jonk?ping University in Sweden and University of Augsburg in Germany. He is an honorary professor of Industrial Economics and Entrepreneurship at the WHU-Otto Beisheim School of Management in Germany.[2] In addition, Audretsch serves as a visiting professor at the King Saud University in Saudi Arabia, honorary professor at the University of Jena in Germany, and is a research fellow of the Centre for Economic Policy Research in London. He was awarded the 2011 Schumpeter Prize from the University of Wuppertal and the 2001 Global Award for Entrepreneurship Research by the Swedish Foundation for Small Business Research.


Contents
1	Background
2	Research
2.1	Selected books
3	Awards
4	References
5	External links
Background
Audretsch got his B.A. at Drew University in 1976, his M.S. in Economics in 1979, and his doctorate in 1980 from the University of Wisconsin¨CMadison.

Research
Audretsch's research focuses on the links between entrepreneurship, government policy, innovation, economic development, and global competitiveness. His articles, mainly in the fields of industrial organization and innovation, number more than 100 and have been published in journals such as The American Economic Review, the European Economic Review, The Review of Economics and Statistics, the Schmalenbach Business Review, and the International Journal of Industrial Organization.

Selected books
The Seven Secrets of Germany, (with Erik E. Lehmann). New York City: Oxford University Press, (2015) [3]
Everything in its Place: Entrepreneurship and The Strategic Management of Cities, Regions and States, New York: Oxford University Press, (2015) [4]
The Handbook of Local Competitiveness, New York: Oxford University Press (2015) [5]
Public Policy in the Entrepreneurial Society, Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar Publishing (2013) [6]
Creating Competitiveness: Entrepreneurship and Innovation Policies for Growth, (with M.L. Walshok). Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar Publishing (2013) [7]
Entrepreneurship, Growth and Public Policy, (with Z. Acs and R. Strom). New York: Cambridge University Press (2012) [8]
Awards
Highly Commended Paper Award (2013) and Citation for Excellence Award (2012), Emerald Literati Network [2]
Schumpeter-School-Award, University of Wuppertal (2011)[9]
Eighth Most Prominent Economist (2009), Handelsblatt Economic Ranking, Germany [2]
Distinguished Professorship (2008), Indiana University [2]
One of the 60 Most Influential Economists of All Time in the 2007 book Die Wichtigsten Wirtschaftsdenker by erla Lin? (Frankfurter Rundschau) [2]
21st Most-Cited Scholar in Economics and Business, January 1996 - June 2006, Thompson Essential Science Indicators [2]


Skolem¨CMahler¨CLech theorem
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
In additive number theory, the Skolem¨CMahler¨CLech theorem states that if a sequence of numbers is generated by a linear recurrence relation, then with finitely many exceptions the positions at which the sequence is zero form a regularly repeating pattern. More precisely, this set of positions can be decomposed into the union of a finite set and finitely many full arithmetic progressions. Here, an infinite arithmetic progression is full if there exist integers a and b such that the progression consists of all positive integers equal to b modulo a.

This result is named after Thoralf Skolem (who proved the theorem for sequences of rational numbers), Kurt Mahler (who proved it for sequences of algebraic numbers), and Christer Lech (who proved it for sequences whose elements belong to any field of characteristic 0). Its proofs use p-adic analysis.


Contents
1	Example
2	Related results
3	References
4	External links
Example
Consider the sequence

0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 2, 0, 3, 0, 5, 0, 8, 0, ...
that alternates between zeros and the Fibonacci numbers. This sequence can be generated by the linear recurrence relation

{\displaystyle F(i)=F(i-2)+F(i-4)} F(i) = F(i-2) + F(i-4)
(a modified form of the Fibonacci recurrence), starting from the base cases F(1) = F(2) = F(4) = 0 and F(3) = 1. For this sequence, F(i) = 0 if and only if i is either one or even. Thus, the positions at which the sequence is zero can be partitioned into a finite set (the singleton set {1}) and a full arithmetic progression (the positive even numbers).

In this example, only one arithmetic progression was needed, but other recurrence sequences may have zeros at positions forming multiple arithmetic progressions.

Related results
The Skolem problem is the problem of determining whether a given recurrence sequence has a zero. There exist an algorithm to test whether there are infinitely many zeros, and if so to find the decomposition of these zeros into periodic sets guaranteed to exist by the Skolem¨CMahler¨CLech theorem. However, it is unknown whether there exists an algorithm to determine whether a recurrence sequence has any non-periodic zeros (Ouaknine & Worrell 2012).


Rino Parenti
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Rino Parenti
Born	13 July 1895
Milan
Died	19 October 1953 (aged 58)
Rome
Nationality	Italian
Rino Parenti (13 July 1895 ¨C 19 October 1953) was an Italian fascist leader.[1]

Biography
Parenti was born in Milan on 13th July 1895.[1][2] He was a non-commissioned officer during World War I.[1] He became fascist in 1919 and participated in local squad militant.[1] He served at local party and was the federal secretary of the Italian Fascist Party for Milan (federale of Milan) from 1933 to 1939.[3][4] During this period, he succeeded in normalizing Milanese fascism and adapting it to the conditions of the national fascism.[3]

Parenti was the president of the Italian National Olympic Committee from 1939 to 1940.[5] He was the first president elected according to the new rules.[6]

Parenti died in Rome on 19 October 1953.[2]


ANVUR
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

ANVUR logo
ANVUR (Agenzia Nazionale di Valutazione del Sistema Universitario e della Ricerca) is the Italian National Agency for the Evaluation of the University and Research Systems. ANVUR was established by a 2006 law with the objective of improving meritocracy in Italian academic research. It was based on Aeres in France and the Research Excellence Framework (REF) in the United Kingdom.[1][2]

ANVUR began to compile its assessment of Italian research, the "VQR" (eValuation of the Quality of Research) in November 2011, assessing 95 universities, 21 research agencies or institutes, and 17 inter-university consortia.[1]


Bhagat Singh Koshyari
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This biography of a living person needs additional citations for verification. Please help by adding reliable sources. Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced must be removed immediately, especially if potentially libelous or harmful.
Find sources: "Bhagat Singh Koshyari" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (October 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Bhagat Singh Koshyari
Ex Uttarakhand CM BS Koshyai.jpg
2nd Chief Minister of Uttarakhand
In office
30 October 2001 ¨C 1 March 2002
Preceded by	Nityanand Swami
Succeeded by	N. D. Tiwari
Member of Parliament
for Nainital-Udhamsingh Nagar
Incumbent
Assumed office 
16 May 2014
Preceded by	K. C. Singh Baba
Personal details
Born	17 June 1942 (age 76)
Bageshwar, United Provinces, British India
Political party	Bharatiya Janata Party
Alma mater	Agra University
Occupation	Teacher
Bhagat Singh Koshyari (born 17 June 1942) is an Indian politician, and a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from Uttarakhand. RSS veteran Koshyari served as National Vice President of BJP and party's 1st State president for Uttarakhand. He also served as 2nd Chief Minister of Uttarakhand (formerly Uttaranchal) from 2001 to 2002 and thereafter, he was the leader of the opposition of the Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly from 2002 to 2007. He has also served as a MLC in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council (when Uttarakhand was part of undivided Uttar Pradesh) and MLA in Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly. Later Served as an MP in Rajya Sabha from 2008 to 2014 from Uttarakhand and presently MP in the 16th Lok Sabha from Nainital-Udhamsingh Nagar constituency, earning him the distinction of being elected in both houses of state legislative assembly and both houses of national parliament respectively.


Contents
1	Personal and professional life
2	Political career
3	Social activities
4	See also
5	References
6	External links
Personal and professional life
Bhagat Singh Koshyari was born on 17 June 1942 to Gopal Singh Koshyari and Motima Devi at Palanadhura Chetabgarh, Bageshwar District, Uttarakhand.[1]

Koshyari holds a master's degree in English and studied at Almora College, Almora of Agra University, now S.S.J. Campus Almora of Kumaon University. During this period, Koshyari was also a general secretary of the students' union of Almora College, Almora, between 1961-62. He has also represented the Executive Council of Kumaon University, during 1979-82, 1982¨C85 and 1988-91.[1]

He has had a successful career as a teacher and journalist. He had worked as a lecturer at Raja Inter College, Raja Ka Rampur, Etah district, Uttar Pradesh for few years. Koshyari is a founder and managing editor of Parvat Piyush, a weekly published from Pithoragarh, Uttarakhand since 1975. He has also published two books, Uttaranchal Pradesh Kyun? and Uttaranchal Sangharsh Evam Samadhan.[1]

Political career
He joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). He took part in the struggle against the Emergency and was imprisoned he was detained in Almora and Fatehgarh Central Jail under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act (MISA), from 3 July 1975 to 23 March 1977.[1]

In May 1997 he became a member of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council, the upper house of legislature of Uttar Pradesh. In 2000, he was appointed minister of Energy, Irrigation, Law, and Legislative Affairs of the newly created state of Uttaranchal. In 2001 he replaced Nityanand Swami as the chief minister of Uttarakhand.[2] He has also served as the President of the BJP of his state. As a result of his party's defeat in the 2002 Assembly elections, he resigned in March 2002 as the chief minister. However, he was elected from Kapkot assembly constituency,[3][4] and became the leader of the opposition of the Uttarakhand Legislative Assembly, till 2007.

In the 2007 Assembly elections in Uttarakhand, he was elected again from Kapkot assembly constituency.[4][5] However, despite the BJP's victory, Koshyari was deprived of the Chief Minister's post by his chief rival, Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri. Media reports have cited that the BJP's central leadership was biased for Bhuwan Chandra Khanduri, despite Koshyari supported by RSS and majority of the elected MLAs. In November 2008 he was elected a member of the Rajya Sabha from Uttarakhand and remained a member till his election to the Lok Sabha in 2014.[6] He has been appointed a national vice president of BJP and also BJP chief in Uttarakhand .[7]

In the 2014 Indian general election, he was elected to the 16th Lok Sabha from Nainital-Udhamsingh Nagar, Lok Sabha constituency.[8]

Social activities
He founded various schools in Uttarakhand[9] (Saraswati Shishu Mandir, Pithoragarh, Vivekanand Vidya Mandir Inter College, Pithoragarh; and Saraswati Vihar Higher Secondary School, Nainital).


The Power of Jennifer Rush
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
The Power of Jennifer Rush
The Power of Jennifer Rush.jpg
Compilation album by Jennifer Rush
Released	22 October 1991
Label	Columbia
Jennifer Rush chronology
Wings of Desire
(1989)	The Power of Jennifer Rush
(1991)	Jennifer Rush
(1992)
The Power of Jennifer Rush is a compilation album released by American singer Jennifer Rush.

This was the first official collection released by Rush. As well as featuring her past hits, a new single was released from the collection, "Ave Maria" (originally from her earlier album Movin').[1]

Released in late 1991, the album only reached No.40 in Germany, but sustained a lengthy run on the charts and re-entered in 1995.[2][3] The collection also peaked within the top 40 in Switzerland and Austria.[2]

A repackaged version of the album, entitled The Platinum Edition was released in 2001 to mark its 10th anniversary.[4]

Track listing
"Destiny" (Candy de Rouge; Gunther Mende; Jennifer Rush; M. D. Clinic)
"Heart Over Mind" (Taylor Rhodes; Tom Deluca)
"Ave Maria (Survivors of a Different Kind)"
"Ring of Ice"
"The Power of Love"
"Higher Ground"
"Flames of Paradise" (Duet with Elton John)
"25 Lovers"
"I Come Undone"
"Same Heart" (Duet with Michael Bolton)
"If You're Ever Gonna Lose My Love"
"Solitaria Mujer"
"Vida de Mi Vida"
In Spain, the track "If You're Ever Gonna Lose My Love" was featured in Spanish by the name of "No Me Canso De Pensar En Ti (Te Quiero Tanto)".


Christianity in Georgia (country)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Christianity by country
Continents colour2.svg
Africa[show]
Asia[show]
Middle East
[show]
Europe[show]
North America[show]
Oceania[show]
South America[show]
Full list
vte
Part of a series on
Georgians 
??????????
Nation
Georgia
Ancient Kartvelian people
Colchians Iberians
Subgroups
Svans Zans
Culture
Music Media Sport Calligraphy Cinema Cuisine Dances Chokha Calendar Architecture Mythology
Languages
Writing system Dialects Grammar
Religion
Georgian Orthodox Church Christianity Catholic Church Islam Judaism Saint George Saint Nino
Symbols
St George's Cross Grapevine cross Bolnisi cross Borjgali
History of Georgia
vte
Today 84% of the population in Georgia practices Orthodox Christianity, primarily the Georgian Orthodox Church. Of these, around 2% follow the Russian Orthodox Church, around 5.9% (almost all of whom are ethnic Armenians) follow the Armenian Apostolic Church and 0.8% are Catholics and are mainly found in the south of Georgia but with a small number in its capital, Tbilisi.

A Pew Center study about religion and education around the world in 2016, found that between the various Christian communities, Georgia ranks as the third highest nation in terms of Christians who obtain a university degree in institutions of higher education (57%).[1]


Contents
1	History
2	Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church
3	Oriental Orthodoxy
4	Catholicism
5	See also
6	References
History

A page from a rare Georgian bible, dating from AD 1030, depicting the Raising of Lazarus
According to Orthodox tradition, Christianity was first preached in Georgia by the Apostles Simon and Andrew in the 1st century. It became the state religion of Kartli (Iberia) in 319.[2][3] The conversion of Kartli to Christianity is credited to a Greek lady called St. Nino of Cappadocia. The Georgian Orthodox Church, originally part of the Church of Antioch, gained its autocephaly and developed its doctrinal specificity progressively between the 5th and 10th centuries. The Bible was also translated into Georgian in the 5th century, as the Georgian alphabet was developed for that purpose. As was true elsewhere, the Christian church in Georgia was crucial to the development of a written language, and most of the earliest written works were religious texts. The Georgians' new faith, which replaced pagan beliefs and Zoroastrianism, was to place them permanently on the front line of conflict between the Islamic and Christian worlds. Georgians remained mostly Christian despite repeated invasions by Muslim powers, and long episodes of foreign domination. After Georgia was annexed by the Russian Empire, the Russian Orthodox Church took over the Georgian church in 1811.

The Georgian church regained its autocephaly only when Russian rule ended in 1917. The Soviet regime that ruled Georgia from 1921 did not consider revitalization of the Georgian church an important goal, however. Soviet rule brought severe purges of the Georgian church hierarchy and frequent repression of Orthodox worship. As elsewhere in the Soviet Union, many churches were destroyed or converted into secular buildings. This history of repression encouraged the incorporation of religious identity into the strong nationalist movement and the quest of Georgians for religious expression outside the official, government-controlled church. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, opposition leaders, especially Zviad Gamsakhurdia, criticized corruption in the church hierarchy. After Ilia II became the patriarch (catholicos) of the Georgian Orthodox Church in the late 1970s, Georgian Orthodoxy experienced a revival. In 1988 Moscow permitted the patriarch to begin consecrating and reopening closed churches, and a large-scale restoration process began. The Georgian Orthodox Church has regained much power and full independence from the state since the restoration of Georgia's independence in 1991.

Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church
Main article: Georgian Orthodox and Apostolic Church
The Georgian Orthodox Church (full title Georgian Apostolic Autocephalous Orthodox Church, or in the Georgian language, ??????????? ?????????? ??????????????? ???????????? ??????? Sakartvelos Samocikulo Martlmadidebeli Avt'ok'epaluri Ek'lesia) is one of the world's most ancient Christian Churches, and tradition traces its origins to the mission of Apostle Andrew in the 1st century. It is an autocephalous (self-headed) part of the Eastern Orthodox Church. Georgian Orthodoxy has been a state religion in parts of Georgia since the 4th century, and is the majority religion in that country.

The Constitution of Georgia recognizes the special role of the Georgian Orthodox Church in the country's history but also stipulates the independence of the church from the state. The relations between the State and the Church are regulated by the Constitutional Agreement of 2002.

Oriental Orthodoxy
Main article: Armenian Apostolic Church in Georgia (country)
Adherents of Oriental Orthodox Christianity in Georgia are mainly ethnic Armenians. Communities of Armenian Apostolic Church in Georgia are under the ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin, and its eparchy (diocese), centered in the Saint George's Church, Tbilisi. The head of the Armenian Apostolic Diocese in Georgia is bishop Vazgen Mirzakhanyan.[4]

Catholicism
Main article: Georgian Catholic Church
The Georgian Catholic Church (or Catholic Church in Georgia) has always, since the East-West Schism, been composed mainly of Latin Rite Catholics. Since the 18th century, there has also been a significant number of Armenian Rite Catholics. Georgian Byzantine-Rite Catholics have always been few, and do not constitute an autonomous ("sui iuris") Church, since canon 27 of the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches defines these Churches as under a hierarchy of their own and recognized as autonomous by the supreme authority of the Church.

A small number, estimated at 500 worldwide,[1] of Byzantine or "Greek" Rite Georgian Catholics do exist. However, "no organized Georgian Greek Catholic Church ever existed", though, outside of Georgia, "a small Georgian Byzantine Catholic parish has long existed in Istanbul. Currently[when?] it is without a priest. Twin male and female religious orders 'of the Immaculate Conception' were founded there in 1861, but have since died out."[2] This was never established as a recognized particular Church of any level (exarchate, ordinariate etc.), within the communion of Catholic Churches, and accordingly has never appeared in the list of Eastern Catholic Churches published in the Annuario Pontificio.


150 Mile House
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
150 Mile House (also referred to as "the 50") is an unincorporated community of 893 people in the Cariboo region of British Columbia. It is located 15 km southeast of Williams Lake on Highway 97.

150 Mile House was an important stop on the Cariboo Wagon Road during the Cariboo Gold Rush. The name marks the distance from Lillooet via the Old Cariboo Road.[1] It is the junction for roads to the communities of Likely and Horsefly to the northeast. Its main features are the "50 Centre", a red roofed mini mall, and 150 Mile House Elementary school.


Green Enterprise Initiative
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Green Enterprise Initiative
Gei logo 500.jpg
Founded	2009
Type	Non-profit organization
Focus	Environmental Protection in Office
Location	
Hong Kong
Website	www.mygei.asia
Green Enterprise Initiative (GEI) is a non-profit organization that was launched in early 2009. The organization was created by a group of young professionals in areas such as marketing who are concerned about the excessive waste produced in offices. It is intended to work out achievable ways on balancing of working efficiency and resources conservation, by using creative and out-of-the-box thinking, and make environmental protection an entertaining and stimulating adventure instead of a duty.


Contents
1	Mission statement
2	Major works
3	LOBELS
4	External links
Mission statement
GEI's mission is to protect the environment by starting from working places to everyone¡¯s daily routine, and to insert a lot of different creative elements into environmental protection process by:

Promoting achievable ways to protect the environment, that at the same time do not need to sacrifice the original quality of life, so as to shape environmental protection as a new way of lifestyle.
Introducing innovative and creative strategies to effectively balance work efficiency and resources conservation;
Organizing creative and attractive campaigns to arise public's attention and awareness on environmental protection;
Setting up an award scheme to encourage individuals and corporate to participate in green voluntary works and carry out green policy; to share environmental protection knowledge with others so as to influence people around them;
Initiating a new lifestyle ¨C LOBELS (Lifestyle of Balancing Ecology and Living Standard) ¨C to preserve the quality of life while carrying out environmental protection.
Major works
Seminars and workshops - to promote environmental protection in office
Award Scheme - to encourage and appreciate outstanding members
Creative and interesting activities - to raise people's awareness towards environmental protection
LOBELS
Lifestyle Of Balancing Ecology and Living Standard (LOBELS) refers to a group of young urban people who enjoy having a quality life and at the same time are concerned about the environment.


Julius Scharlach
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Julius Scharlach (1905)
Julius Scharlach (February 12, 1842 in Bodenwerder ¨C March 18, 1908 in Hamburg) was a Hamburg lawyer, businessman and a prominent figure in the colonial history of Germany in the late 19th and early 20th century. He was a member of the Colonial Council, and founded the Verein f¨¹r das Deutschtum im Ausland (VDA).

Scharlach got a degree in law from the University of G?ttingen, where he became a member of Corps Hannovera G?ttingen. As a lawyer, he defended the dismissed Governor of German East Africa, Carl Peters. As the lawyer of the Dynamit Nobel company, he became acquainted with leading financial circles in the United Kingdom, and with British colonialists, and between 1905 and 1908 he cooperated extensively with Cecil Rhodes, aiming at preventing conflict between Germany and the United Kingdom. Scharlach had substantial business interests in the German colonies, notably in German South-West Africa and Cameroon. He founded the Gesellschaft S¨¹d-Kamerun, the South West Africa Company and the Otavi Minen- und Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft.

In 1902 Scharlach demanded for German Empire to create forced labour in its colonies stating: But culture is impossible without work and for that reason, the native is obliged to work from the very first day of occupation by whites. I am not afraid to state that introducing compulsory labour for natives is a moral obligation toward the latter[1]

A river in Brazil was named in his honour by German settlers.

His son Otto Scharlach was also a corporate lawyer and took over the Scharlach law firm.


Rowby Goren
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Unbalanced scales.svg
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Rowby Goren is an American writer specializing in comedy.[1] He was a part of the writing team of the comedy series Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In, created by George Schlatter.[2] Goren's writing talents range from variety shows to situation comedy, game shows, cartoons, as well as directing Joe Roth and Neal Israel's comedy feature Cracking Up. Goren was a part of Joe Roth and Neal Israel's cult video Tunnel Vision. Goren won an Emmy for writing Hollywood Squares. He also wrote for numerous cartoon series including Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids, He-Man and the Masters of the Universe, The Berenstain Bears, Tiny Toon Adventures, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, The Busy World of Richard Scarry, The Adventures of Paddington Bear, The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! as well as Saturday morning series such as various Sid and Marty Krofft's H.R. Pufnstuf series.

Rowby is also a Shopify Expert and Partner, and has built numerous e-commerce sites on that platform. Rowby blogs on Shopify and Shopify Plus as well as e-commerce in general.


Ficus obliqua
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Small-leaved fig
Ficus obliqua at Princes Highway Milton New South Wales.JPG
Ficus obliqua, Milton, New South Wales
Scientific classification edit
Kingdom:	Plantae
Clade:	Angiosperms
Clade:	Eudicots
Clade:	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Moraceae
Genus:	Ficus
Species:	F. obliqua
Binomial name
Ficus obliqua
G.Forst.[1]
Synonyms[1]
Ficus obliqua G.Forst. var. obliqua
Ficus backhousei (Miq.) Miq.
Ficus eugenioides (Miq.) F.Muell. ex Miq.
Ficus tryonii F.M.Bailey
Ficus virginea Banks & Sol. ex Hiern
Urostigma backhousei Miq.
Urostigma eugenioides Miq.
Urostigma obliquum (G.Forst.) Miq.

Ficus obliqua, commonly known as the small-leaved fig, is a tree in the family Moraceae, native to eastern Australia, New Guinea, eastern Indonesia to Sulawesi and islands in the southwestern Pacific Ocean. Previously known for many years as Ficus eugenioides, it is a banyan of the genus Ficus, which contains around 750 species worldwide in warm climates, including the edible fig (Ficus carica). Beginning life as a seedling, which grows on other plants (epiphyte) or on rocks (lithophyte), F. obliqua can grow to 60 m (200 ft) high and nearly as wide with a pale grey buttressed trunk, and glossy green leaves.

The small round yellow fruit ripen and turn red at any time of year, although they peak in autumn and winter (April to July). Known as a syconium, the fruit is an inverted inflorescence with the flowers lining an internal cavity. Ficus obliqua is pollinated by two species of fig wasp¡ªPleistodontes greenwoodi and P. xanthocephalus. Many species of bird, including pigeons, parrots and various passerines, eat the fruit. The range is along the east coast from Queensland, through New South Wales in rainforest, savanna woodland, sclerophyll forest and gallery forest. It is used as a shade tree in parks and public spaces, and is well-suited for use as an indoor plant or in bonsai. All parts of the tree have been used in traditional medicine in Fiji.


Contents
1	Taxonomy
2	Description
3	Distribution and habitat
4	Ecology
4.1	Reproduction and life span
5	Uses
6	References
Taxonomy
Commonly known as the small-leaved fig, Ficus obliqua was described by German naturalist Georg Forster in 1786 based on type material collected in Vanuatu. Dutch botanist Friedrich Miquel described Urostigma eugenioides from Albany Island in Queensland in 1861, which was reclassified by Victorian Government Botanist Ferdinand von Mueller as Ficus eugenioides in 1867, and it was known as this for many years. However, as Forster's name is older, it takes precedence. The specific epithet is the Latin adjective obliquus, meaning "oblique", although the attribute it refers to is unclear.[2] Frederick Manson Bailey described Ficus tryonii in 1906, from a collection at altitude on Middle Percy Island in the Whitsunday Islands off central Queensland, which is now regarded as F. obliqua. Joseph Banks and Daniel Solander collected and named Ficus virginea from Booby Island in 1770, which was synonymised with F. obliqua by William Philip Hiern in 1901.[3]

The species is currently regarded as monotypic. Three varieties of Ficus obliqua were recognised until 2001¡ªF. obliqua var. petiolaris, F. obliqua var. obliqua, and F. obliqua var. puberula from Western Australia. A revision of the group led to the conclusion that F. obliqua var. petiolaris belonged in the species F. rubiginosa.[4] F. obliqua var. puberula was found to be more distantly related to obliqua than rubiginosa and hence has been reclassified as a separate species, Ficus brachypoda.[5]

With over 750 species, Ficus is one of the largest angiosperm genera.[6] Based on morphology, English botanist E. J. H. Corner divided the genus into four subgenera,[7] which was later expanded to six.[8] In this classification, Ficus obliqua was placed in subseries Malvanthereae, series Malvanthereae, section Malvanthera of the subgenus Urostigma.[9] In his reclassification of the Australian Malvanthera, Australian botanist Dale J. Dixon altered the delimitations of the series within the section, but left this species in the series Malvanthereae.[7]

In a study published in 2008, Nina R?nsted and colleagues analysed the DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS and ETS), and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3pdh) region, in the first molecular analysis of the section Malvanthera. They found F. obliqua to be most closely related to three species of the arid Northern Territory (F. platypoda, F. subpuberula and F. lilliputiana) and classified it in a new series Obliquae in the subsection Platypodeae. The species had remained a transitional rainforest species while its relatives radiated into dryer regions.[9]

Description

A large buttressed trunk of Ficus obliqua, Allyn River, Barrington Tops, Australia.
Ficus obliqua is a tree, which may reach 15¨C60 m (49¨C197 ft) in height with a similar crown width.[10] It has smooth thin grey bark with lighter-coloured lenticels, and a buttressed trunk, which may reach 3 m (9.8 ft) in diameter. The glossy green leaves are elliptic to oblong in shape and measure 5¨C8 cm (2.0¨C3.1 in) long by 2¨C3.5 cm (0.79¨C1.38 in) wide on 1¨C2 cm (0.39¨C0.79 in) petioles.[10] They are alternately arranged on the stems.[2] Growing in pairs, the round yellow fruit turn orange or orange-red dotted with darker red and reaches a diameter of 6 to 10 mm (0.24 to 0.39 in) upon ripening over April to July,[10] although fruit can appear at other times of year.[11] As is the case with all figs, the fruit is an inverted inflorescence known as a syconium, with tiny flowers arising from the inner surface.[12] Ficus obliqua is monoecious¡ªboth male and female flowers are produced by the same plant, and in fact in the same fruit. Within any given fruit, female flowers mature several weeks before the male flowers.[13]

Historically, there has been some confusion between Ficus obliqua and the related F. rubiginosa.[5] F. obliqua can be distinguished by its smaller fruit on shorter stalks and its glabrous (hairless) leaves; in addition, the petioles have ascending hyaline hairs.[12] Some forms of F. rubiginosa have both leaves and petioles glabrous while others have both covered in fine fur.[5] The syconia of F. obliqua are smaller, measuring 4.3¨C11.9 mm long and 4.4¨C11.0 mm in diameter, compared with 7.4¨C17.3 mm long and 7.6¨C17.3 mm diameter for F. rubiginosa.[5] Ficus brachypoda is a lithophytic plant from arid northern and western Australia, with a short petiole and leaf shape aligning it with Ficus platypoda.[14]

Distribution and habitat
Ficus obliqua occurs from Mount Dromedary (36¡ã S) in southern New South Wales northwards along the coast and Great Dividing Range to the tip of Cape York Peninsula in north Queensland. Outside Australia it occurs on New Guinea and offshore islands,[12] through eastern Indonesia to Sulawesi in the west and east into the southwestern Pacific,[15] where it is found in New Caledonia,[16] Fiji, Tonga, Samoa and Vanuatu.[17] It had been thought to occur in Western Australia, but these collections have been now referred to Ficus brachypoda.[5] Preferring soils with high nutrient and water content, it occurs on sandstone or latite soils in the Sydney region. The habitat is warm temperate to moist subtropical rainforest. Large specimens can rise above the canopy as emergent trees.[11]

Ecology

Unripe fruit
The double-eyed fig parrot (Cyclopsitta diophthalma) eats the fruit of Ficus obliqua, steadily depositing fruity detritus on the ground.[18] The rainbow lorikeet (Trichoglossus moluccanus) is another parrot that consumes the fruit and disperses the seeds;[4] other Australian bird species include the southern cassowary (Casuarius casuarius),[3] brown cuckoo-dove (Macropygia phasianella), rose-crowned fruit dove (Ptilinopus regina), wompoo fruit dove (P. magnificus), wonga pigeon (Leucosarcia melanoleuca), topknot pigeon (Lopholaimus antarcticus), silvereye (Zosterops lateralis), pied currawong (Strepera graculina), black-faced cuckoo-shrike (Coracina novaehollandae), olive-backed oriole (Oriolus sagittatus), Australasian figbird (Sphecotheres vieilloti), green catbird (Ailuroedus crassirostris), regent bowerbird (Sericulus chrysocephalus), satin bowerbird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus), and Lewin's honeyeater (Meliphaga lewinii).[2] The tree is an important food source for the western Polynesian species the many-colored fruit dove (Ptilinopus perousii)[19] and crimson-crowned fruit dove (P. porphyraceus), and has been recommended for amenity planting in Tonga for these birds.[20] The spectacled flying fox (Pteropus conspicillatus)[21] and grey-headed flying fox (Pteropus poliocephalus) also eat the fruit.[11]

Leaves of Ficus obliqua serve as a food source for the larvae of the butterfly species the common crow (Euploea core),[22] the no-brand crow (Euploea alcathoe),[23] and the Geometer moth species Scopula epigypsa.[24] The thrips species Gynaikothrips australis feeds on the underside of new leaves of F. obliqua, as well as F. rubiginosa and F. macrophylla. As plant cells die, nearby cells are induced into forming meristem tissue. A gall results and the leaves become distorted and curl over. The thrips remain in the galls at night and wander about in the daytime before returning in the evening, possibly to different galls about the tree. The thrips begin feeding when the tree has flushes of new growth, and the life cycle is around six weeks. At other times, thrips reside on old leaves without feeding or pupate sheltered in the bark.[25]

Reproduction and life span

A growing specimen that has begun as a lithophyte and has increasing numbers of roots reaching the ground, Watagan Mountains
Figs have an obligate mutualism with fig wasps (Agaonidae); figs are only pollinated by fig wasps, and fig wasps can only reproduce in fig flowers. Generally, each fig species depends on a single species of wasp for pollination. The wasps are similarly dependent on their fig species to reproduce.[26] The assumption that fig species are usually pollinated by just one species of fig wasp has been challenged by the discovery of cryptic species complexes among what was previously thought to be single species of fig wasps.[27] Ficus obliqua is pollinated by two species of fig wasp¡ªPleistodontes greenwoodi and P. xanthocephalus.[26]

Female and male flowers in each syconium mature at different times. Female wasps enter the syconium and lay eggs in the female flowers as they mature. These eggs later hatch and the progeny mate. The females of the new generation collect pollen from the male flowers, which have matured by this point, and leave to visit other syconia and repeat the process. A field study in Brisbane found that F. obliqua trees often bore both male and female syconia at the same time¡ªthis could be beneficial for reproduction in isolated populations, such as those on islands. The same study found a slightly reduced number of male phase syconia in winter, thought due to increased mortality of the wasp pollinator in cooler months.[13]

The animals that eat the figs disperse the seeds, which then germinate and grow on other plants (epiphytes) or on rocks (lithophytes). As the new plants develop, they send roots to the forest floor. Figs growing on other plants grow larger and larger until they strangle their hosts. Ficus obliqua is long-lived, and trees are thought to live in excess of 500 years.[11]

Uses

Ficus obliqua planted as a shade tree in a playground, Glebe, New South Wales
Ficus obliqua is an elegant shade tree for parks or fields, and is adaptable to differing soils.[10] A notable specimen in Mick Ryan Park, Milton on the New South Wales south coast stands 14 m (46 ft) tall and 38 m (125 ft) across,[28] and is a local landmark.[29] Like other fig species that grow into large trees, Ficus obliqua is not suitable for any but the largest gardens as its aggressive root system invades drains and garden beds. Fig trees also drop large quantities of fruit and leaves, leaving a mess underfoot.[10] Although it is much less used in bonsai than F. rubiginosa,[30] F. obliqua is well-suited for use in the medium; its small leaves and trunk's propensity to thicken give it attributes optimal for a tree 10¨C80 cm (3.9¨C31.5 in) in height. It is seen in bonsai nurseries mainly in the Brisbane area, where it is a locally common species, and is very highly regarded by at least one proponent, Bradley Barlow.[31][32] Barlow entered a specimen from Brisbane to the Bonsai Clubs International competition in 2006, winning a prize.[33] It is also suited for use as an indoor plant in low-, medium- or brightly lit indoor spaces.[34] The timber is too soft for use in woodworking.[10]

Known as baka or baka ni viti in Fiji, Ficus obliqua has many of its parts used in Fijian traditional medicine,[17] and was previously held to be sacred there.[35] Its white sap has been used for painful or swollen joints and limbs or boils, or diluted with water and drunk to improve breast milk. Liquid extracted from the root bark has been used for headaches or, when diluted, to improve health after childbirth, and the leaves are applied to venereal lesions. The species has been traditionally used for boils in Samoa and Tonga.[17]


Greg Barrett
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Greg Barrett
FBC photo.png
Born	Gregory Lane Barrett
Bristol, Tennessee, U.S.
Residence	Los Angeles, California
Occupation	author, journalist, public speaker
Website	GregBarrett.org
Greg Barrett is an American author,[1] freelance writer,[2] public speaker,[3] and former newspaper and wire journalist.[4] He currently resides in Los Angeles, CA.


Contents
1	Education and early career
2	Books
3	Foreign reporting
4	Kamehameha Schools and Bishop Estate investigation
5	Freelance Subjects
6	Children's Book
7	References
8	External links
Education and early career
He was born Gregory Lane Barrett in Bristol, Tennessee, on November 23, 1961. He grew up in Bristol, Virginia, and graduated from Bristol's Virginia High School in 1980. He is a 1986 graduate of Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia. Prior to college, he was a factory worker at Burlington Industries in Bristol, TN.[5] For more than twenty years in print journalism he worked as a local, national and foreign correspondent for, among others, The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia), The Charlotte Observer (North Carolina), The Honolulu Advertiser, the Gannett Company's GNS/USA Today bureau in Washington, D.C., and for The Baltimore Sun.

Books

Gospel of Father Joe book jacket

Book jacket for THE GOSPEL OF RUTBA
His first non-fiction book, The Gospel of Father Joe: Revolutions & Revelations in the Slums of Bangkok (Wiley 2008), is the story of Redemptorist Catholic priest Rev. Joseph H. Maier, a native of Washington in the United States who lives and works in the port-side slums of Bangkok, Thailand.[6] For more than three decades, "Father Joe" and his nonprofit Human Development Foundation and Mercy Centre helped relieve Bangkok's grinding poverty by constructing and managing more than thirty slum preschools, four orphanages and two AIDS hospices, often without church sanction or legal permits.[7] The Nautilus Book Awards honored The Gospel of Father Joe with a silver medal in 2009 in the category of Conscious Media-Journalism-Investigative Reporting.[8] In June 2012 Barrett's narrative nonfiction book The Gospel of Rutba: War, Peace and the Good Samaritan Story in Iraq was released by Orbis Books, a leading U.S. publisher of religious books and the publishing arm of the Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers. The book was edited by Orbis publisher Robert Ellsberg, son of Daniel Ellsberg, the whistle-blower responsible for releasing the Pentagon Papers in 1971. In The Gospel of Rutba Barrett tells the story of three U.S. Christian peacemakers who were injured in a bad car accident in Iraq during the U.S.-led bombing of that country in March 2003. He chronicles how the western desert town of Ar Rutba, a Sunni-majority town under heavy attack from the United States, turned the other cheek and cared for the injured Americans: author-activist Shane Claiborne of Philadelphia's The Simple Way; Christian Peacemaker Teams veteran Cliff Kindy; and Mennonite pastor-activist Rev. Weldon Nisly.[9] Three days earlier, on March 26, 2003, Rutba's only hospital had been bombed by U.S. Army Special Forces.[10] After rescuing, treating and protecting the peacemakers, Rutba locals refused the Americans' effort to pay them. Dr. Farouq Al-Dulaimi, the director of the hospital bombed three days earlier, asked for the Americans to do only one thing: "Go and tell the world about Rutba."[11] Seven years later, Barrett, who had reported from the streets of prewar Iraq in January and February 2003 alongside three-time Nobel Peace Prize nominee Kathy Kelly, returned to Iraq with the unarmed peacemakers in an effort to tell the story of Rutba. Archbishop emeritus Rev. Desmond Tutu contributed the book's foreword and The Simple Way's Shane Claiborne, author of The Irresistible Revolution: Living as an Ordinary Radical, wrote its afterword.

Foreign reporting
As a roving national and international correspondent based in the Washington, D.C. bureau for GNS/USA Today, he was dispatched to Thailand in 2000 to report on the social and economic conditions that had precipitated U.N. protocols intended to combat sex trafficking.[12] It was there that he discovered the humanitarian work of the Mercy Centre and Rev. Joe Maier. Barrett has also reported from Egypt,[13] Jordan,[14] Iraq,[15] Israel and the Palestinian Territories.[16]

Kamehameha Schools and Bishop Estate investigation
In 1997, Barrett was the Native Hawaiian Affairs reporter for the morning newspaper in Honolulu, Hawaii, when he began investigating the controversial management of Kamehameha Schools, a private co-educational college-preparatory school founded in 1887 by Bernice Pauahi Bishop, a Hawaiian princess, philanthropist and the great-granddaughter of King Kamehameha I. The Hawaiians-only school, formally known as Kamehameha Schools/Bishop Estate or KSBE, was managed by the five trustees of Bishop Estate, Hawaii's largest private landowner. Barrett's reports on the micromanaging of Kamehameha Schools unleashed critics of Bishop Estate, which led to an investigation of the estate by Hawaii's State Attorney General. By 1998, the trustees, each of whom were being paid between $800,000 to $900,000 annually, had voluntarily resigned or been permanently removed by the state. That same year, the faculty organization at Kamehameha Schools entered Barrett for a local-news Pulitzer for reports that helped "to break open the secretive affairs of KSBE (Kamehameha Schools Bishop Estate) with unprecedented charges by alumni and faculty of mismanagement of the Kamehameha Schools."[17] Barrett's investigation of KSBE is credited in various books for helping to bring about change at Kamehameha Schools and Bishop Estate.[18][19]

Freelance Subjects

Greg Barrett boxing in Arco Arena, Sacramento, CA Sept 1991
Barrett has freelanced for websites and publications such as The Investigative Reporters & Editors Journal,[20][21] The Christian Science Monitor,[22] Salon.com,[23] Sacramento magazine,[24] Conspire magazine,[25] The Huffington Post[26] and others. Topics of his freelance articles have ranged from first-person participatory journalism with him fighting PAL national middleweight champion Ahmad Hempstead in Sacramento's Arco Arena to his investigations into Congress' decades-old War on Cancer, U.S. policy in the Middle East, and essays about his methods of investigative research and reporting.[27][28][29][30]

Children's Book
In Hawaii he co-authored a children's book with writer Jane Hopkins, adapted by Lisa Matsumoto and illustrated by Michael Furuya. The book, Wailana the Waterbug (Mutual Publishing, 1999), was inspired by the brief but inspiring life of three-year-old leukemia victim Alana Dung. Proceeds from the book benefit the Alana Dung Research Foundation, a public charity founded by Alana's parents to help support medical research on terminal illnesses and to improve the quality of life for children. In 2000 Wailana the Waterburg won Hawaii's Ka Palapala Po'okela award for excellence in children's books.[31] One year later, in July 2001, Hawaii's Ohi'a Productions transformed the book into the theater company's first large-scale musical titled On Dragonfly Wings.[32] On page and stage the metaphor of a waterbug's miraculous metamorphosis into a dragonfly is used to portray death as a beginning, not the end.


Mapleton, Queensland
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Mapleton, Queensland" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (August 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Mapleton
Sunshine Coast, Queensland
Population	1,564 (2016 census)[1]
Postcode(s)	4560
Location	113 km (70 mi) from Brisbane
LGA(s)	Sunshine Coast
State electorate(s)	Nicklin
Federal Division(s)	Fairfax
Suburbs around Mapleton:
Gheerulla	Gheerulla	Kureelpa
Obi Obi	Mapleton	Dulong
Hunchy	Flaxton	Obi Obi
Mapleton is a small town in Queensland's Sunshine Coast hinterland. It includes one of Queensland¡¯s largest Outdoor Education Centres (QCCC Mapleton), the Lilyponds, the Mapleton Tavern and historic Seaview House (St Isidore's Farm College), and is well known for its 180 degree panoramic views of the Sunshine Coast.

The town is located high on the Blackall Range, 10 minutes drive from Nambour, 25 minutes from Maleny and 30 minutes from Maroochydore. At the 2016 Australian Census, the town recorded a population of 1,564.[1]


Contents
1	History
2	Heritage listings
3	Community
4	Primary school
5	Visitors and facilities
6	Forests and parks
7	Accommodation
8	See also
9	References
10	External links
History
Early settlers of the area grew fruit, vegetables and ceral crops.[2] The first timber cutters extracted red cedar and beech timber taking it to Nambour. Initially the settlement was known as Luton Vale until 1899 when the name was changed after the English town.[2]

In 1906 the road from the Mary Valley to Mapleton was complete. By 1909 a sawmill was operating in the town.[2] It closed in 1972. From 1915 through until 1944, Mapleton was served by a 2 ft (610 mm) gauge tramway which ran nearly 18 kilometres from Nambour. It was worked by two shay locomotives. Pineapples, dairying and small crops were the towns major industries until the late 1950s.[2] The scenic beauty of the area has allowed tourism to dominate in the decades since.

Heritage listings
Mapleton has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:

40 Post Office Road: St Isidore's (also known as Seaview House) [3]
Community
Mapleton has many community services, associations and clubs including the Mapleton & District Community Associations (MADCA), a bowls club and community gym, the Mapleton Community Library which is run by volunteer staff, a tourist information and arts centre, a choir, tennis club, kindergarten and rural fire service and post office. There is also a medical centre which provides primary health care for the community. The Mapleton Tennis Club at 31 Obi Obi Road has two outdoor courts available to club members and the general public (see: https://www.tennis.com.au/mapleton-tennis-club/).

Primary school
The Mapleton State Primary School was 100 years old in 1999 and caters for around 200 local children. The school grounds are large and include Baxters Creek and a new covered multi-purpose area, administration offices and resource centre which opened in December 2009. The school is home to the Mapleton Observatory open to the public once a month as an open night but can be booked on most evenings weather permitting for a $50 fee for up to 10 people.

Visitors and facilities
Mapleton attracts visitors following the Blackall Range tourist drive who visit the shops on Obi Obi Road and Post Office Road. These shops include a fish and chip shop, country pharmacy, cafe and delicatessen, bakery, two coffee shops, a gallery,art & gift shop, Roger Loughnan Real Estate and a pizza and pasta restaurant. Further along Post Office Road is a leadlight workshop. There is also a tavern with bottle shop. The Katie Rose second hand clothing shop, located in the Old School House raises money for the Sunshine Coast Community hospice. Next door is the local Tourist Information Centre. There is an art gallery located in the same building as Mapleton Realty on Flaxton Drive 200m from the IGA. Mapleton also has a hardware, IGA, BP service station, three real estate agents and a number of massage services, alternative therapists, physiotherapist and hairdressers. The Zonta Club of the Blackhall Range produces a business directory including many of these. There are public toilets in the park between the tavern and the school and also at the Lilyponds play park.

The largest attraction of visitors to the town is the Queensland Conference and Camping (QCCC) Outdoor Education Centre which was built in 1983. The facility hosts 30,000 guests annually, most of them school children The 55-acre property has more than 20 activity options and employs 80 locals.

Forests and parks
Mapleton National Park (formerly Mapleton Forest Reserve) protects rainforest remnants with bunya pines, piccabeen palm groves, tall open blackbutt forests and picturesque mountain scenery.[4] Picnic tables, toilets and barbecues are provided.

The Lilyponds area was for many years a swamp and underwent an $800,000 makeover to turn it into a community park. There are free BBQ's, children's play park and covered seating areas.

Delicia Road Conservation Park is a small park protecting remnant forest communities. It is a refuge for wildlife and a place where visitors can enjoy the native forest. The land was donated by Linda Garrett and so locals refer to it as Linda Garrett Park. There is a 2.2 kilometre walk called the Linda Garrett circuit which passes through rainforest, a palm grove and tall, wet, eucalypt forest. The great barred frog may be seen along Gheerulla Creek and birdwatchers may hear the melodic, drumming call of the endangered marbled frogmouth.

Mapleton Falls National Park marks the point just west of Mapleton where Pencil Creek cascades 120 metres over an escarpment. This small, day-use-only park, shelters many bird species, including the peregrine falcon, eastern whipbird and wompoo fruit-dove. From the carpark there is a short walk to Mapleton Falls lookout with wheelchair access to toilet and lookout. The panoramic view takes in the waterfall and Obi Obi Valley. From the open, grassy picnic area, the Wompoo circuit winds through eucalypts and rainfores where visitors may hear the fruit-dove¡¯s booming calls, wallock-a-woo and book-a-roo. Near the causeway pool frogs may be heard and distinctive hexagonal volcanic rocks seen.

Accommodation
Mapleton is home to two caravan parks, several self-catering units, bed and breakfasts and some romantic and luxurious accommodation. QCCC Mapleton currently offers 300 beds.


Perenniporiella
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Perenniporiella
Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Fungi
Division:	Basidiomycota
Class:	Agaricomycetes
Order:	Polyporales
Family:	Polyporaceae
Genus:	Perenniporiella
Decock & Ryvarden (2003)
Type species
Perenniporiella neofulva
(Lloyd) Decock & Ryvarden 2003
Species
P. chaquenia
P. micropora
P. neofulva
P. pendula
P. tepeitensis

Perenniporiella is a genus of five species of polypore fungi in the family Polyporaceae. The genus was segregated from Perenniporia by Cony Decock and Leif Ryvarden in 2003 with P. neofulva as the type species.[1]


Preservation Act 2
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Preservation: Act 2
KinksPreservation2.jpg
Studio album by The Kinks
Released	8 May 1974 (Act 2)
Recorded	January - March 1974
Studio	Konk Studios, London
Genre	Rock
Length	67:00
76:56 (1998 reissue)
Label	RCA (original)
Rhino (1991 reissue)
Velvel (1998 reissue)
Producer	Ray Davies
The Kinks chronology
Preservation Act 1
(1973)	Preservation: Act 2
(1974)	Soap Opera
(1975)
Singles from Preservation Act 2
"Money Talks"
Released: April 1974 (US)
"Mirror of Love"
Released: 5 April 1974 (UK)
"Mirror of Love (Band version)"
Released: 26 July 1974
Professional ratings
Review scores
Source	Rating
Allmusic	1.5/5 stars[1]
Christgau's Record Guide	B¨C[2]
Encyclopedia of Popular Music	2/5 stars[3]
The Great Rock Discography	3/10[4]
Pitchfork	9.5/10[5]
Preservation Act 2 is a 1974 concept album by British rock band The Kinks, and their twelfth studio album. It was not well received by critics and sold poorly (peaking on the Billboard 200 at No. 114), though the live performances of the material were much better received.[citation needed]

The 1991 CD reissue on Rhino was a two CD set combining Preservation: Act 2 with its 1973 predecessor Preservation: Act 1, but with no bonus tracks. The 1998 CD reissue of Act 2 on Velvel featured the outtake "Slum Kids", a popular live piece for The Kinks.


Contents
1	Track listing
2	Personnel
3	References
4	External links
Track listing
All tracks written by Ray Davies.

Side one
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Announcement"	0:41
2.	"Introduction to Solution"	2:43
3.	"When a Solution Comes"	3:40
4.	"Money Talks"	3:44
5.	"Announcement"	0:55
6.	"Shepherds of the Nation"	4:17
Side two
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Scum of the Earth"	2:45
2.	"Second-Hand Car Spiv"	4:01
3.	"He's Evil"	4:25
4.	"Mirror of Love"	3:26
5.	"Announcement"	0:34
Side three
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Nobody Gives"	6:33
2.	"Oh Where Oh Where Is Love?"	3:40
3.	"Flash's Dream (The Final Elbow)"	4:17
4.	"Flash's Confession"	4:06
Side four
No.	Title	Length
1.	"Nothing Lasts Forever"	3:42
2.	"Announcement"	0:20
3.	"Artificial Man"	5:30
4.	"Scrapheap City"	3:16
5.	"Announcement"	1:05
6.	"Salvation Road"	3:20
CD reissue bonus tracks
Personnel
The Kinks
Ray Davies - vocals, guitar
Dave Davies - guitar, vocals
John Dalton - bass
John Gosling - keyboards
Mick Avory - drums
with:

Maryann Price, Angi Girton, Pamela Travis, Sue Brown - vocals
Chris Timothy - "announcer" voice
Chris Musk - "reporter at meeting" voice
Alan Holmes - baritone saxophone, clarinet
Laurie Brown - trumpet, flute, tenor saxophone
John Beecham - trombone, flute
Technical
Roger Beale - engineer
Pat Doyle - art direction
Bob Searles - design
Jerry Preston - illustration


Kadri-Ann Lass
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Kadri-Ann Lass
No. 42 ¨C Duquesne Dukes
Position	Guard/Forward
League	Atlantic 10 Conference
Personal information
Born	November 24, 1996 (age 22)
Nationality	Estonian
Listed height	6 ft 3 in (1.91 m)
Career information
High school	Audentese Spordig¨¹mnaasium (Tallinn, Estonia)
College	Duquesne (2015¨Cpresent)
Career highlights and awards
Atlantic 10 All-Defensive team (2018)
Atlantic 10 All-Rookie team (2016)
Kadri-Ann Lass (born on 24 November 1996)[1] is an Estonian women's basketball guard and forward with the Duquesne Dukes women's basketball team.


Contents
1	Career
1.1	College career
1.2	International career
2	References
3	External Links
Career
College career
Lass started studying at Duquesne University and playing for their basketball team in NCAA Division I in 2015.[2] In her freshman season, she set a program record by being named the A-10 Rookie of the Week seven times, besting Korie Hlede. Although the favorite to be named 2016 Rookie of the Year, she was ousted by Dayton's Lauren Cannatelli. However, she was named to the A-10 All-Rookie Team[3]. Following the 2017-18 season, Lass was named to the Atlantic 10 All-Defensive team after leading the league and all NCAA juniors in blocks with 90.[4] On Jan. 25, 2018, she became the program's all-time leader in blocked shots with 178.[5]

International career
Lass played for the Estonia national basketball team in U16 and U18 age groups,[6] and also appeared in several international competitions with the national 3x3 team including 3x3 World Championships, 3x3 U18 World Championships and 2014 Summer Youth Olympics.[7] Her debut for Estonia women's national basketball team came in 2015.[8]


The End of the Road (1976 film)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
The End of the Road
Directed by	John Armstrong
Produced by	John Armstrong
Production
company
Pelican Films
Distributed by	British Petroleum
Release date
1976
Running time
23 minutes
Country	United Kingdom
Language	English
The End of the Road is a 1976 British short documentary film directed by John Armstrong. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Short.[1]


Chess database
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
A chess database is a database of chess games.[1]

List of notable chess databases
Chess Assistant
Chess Informant Expert
Chess opening book (computers)
Chess.com
Chess24.com
ChessBase
Shane's Chess Information Database


East Aberthaw Coast
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Lagoon on The Leys of East Aberthaw
East Aberthaw Coast is a Site of Special Scientific Interest in the Vale of Glamorgan, south Wales. Villages in the area include Aberthaw (East and West) and Gileston. Part of this area of the coast is known as The Leys.


1998 All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
1998 All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship
Championship details
All-Ireland Champions
Winning team	Kerry (9th win)
Captain	Brian Scanlon
Managers	Jack O'Connor
All-Ireland Finalists
Losing team	Laois
Provincial Champions
Munster	Kerry
Leinster	Laois
Ulster	Armagh
Connacht	Galway
The 1998 All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship was the 35th staging of the All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship since its establishment by the Gaelic Athletic Association in 1964.

Derry entered the championship as defending champions, however, they were defeated by Armagh in the Ulster final.

On 9 May 1998, Kerry won the championship following a 2-8 to 0-11 defeat of Laois in the All-Ireland final.[1] This was their ninth All-Ireland title overall and their first in two championship seasons.


Contents
1	Results
1.1	All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship
2	Statistics
2.1	Miscellaneous
3	References
Results
All-Ireland Under-21 Football Championship
Semi-finals

25 April 1998Semi-final	Laois	0-13 - 1-09	Galway	Pearse Park, Longford
2 May 1998Semi-final	Kerry	1-11 - 1-09	Armagh	Parnell Park, Dublin
Finals

9 May 1998Final	Kerry	2-08 - 0-11	Laois	Gaelic Grounds, Limerick
Statistics
Miscellaneous
Armagh win the Ulster title for the first time in their history.


British Boxing Board of Control
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
British Boxing Board of Control
Sport	Boxing
Abbreviation	BBBofC
Founded	1929[1]
Location	Cardiff
Replaced	National Sporting Club
Official website
www.bbbofc.com
United Kingdom
The British Boxing Board of Control (BBBofC) is the governing body of professional boxing in the United Kingdom.[2] It was formed in 1929 from the old National Sporting Club and is headquartered in Cardiff.


Contents
1	Councils
2	Lonsdale Belt
3	Scoring
4	Museum
5	Champions
6	See also
7	References
8	External links
Councils
The Board divides the country into eight "Area" Councils:[3]

Scottish
Northern Ireland
Welsh
Northern Area
Central Area
Southern Area
Western Area
Midlands Area
Lonsdale Belt
Main article: Lonsdale Belt
The Board also sanctions bouts for British boxing's most prestigious title: the Lonsdale Belt. The Lonsdale Belt is awarded to the champion of the United Kingdom in each respective weight class and to win the belt outright it must be defended against a British challenger on at least three separate occasions.

Scoring
The Board is known for its unique scoring system. Except for title fights (where the bout is scored by three judges, none of whom serve as fight referee), the referee is the sole scorer. After the bout (if the fight goes to points decision), the referee hands his decision to the MC and the winner is announced, the referee then raising the arm of the winner ¨C or, in the event of a draw, both boxers' arms.

Museum
The Board's headquarters include a museum of boxing memorabilia.

Champions
Weight class:	Reign began:	Champion	Record:	Defenses:
Flyweight	14 May 2016	Wales Andrew Selby	11¨C1 (6 KO)	0
Super Flyweight		vacant		
Bantamweight	27 September 2018	Scotland Ukashir Farooq	11¨C0 (4 KO)	1
Super Bantamweight	8 March 2019	England Brad Foster	10¨C0¨C1 (3 KO)	0
Featherweight	26 September 2015	England Ryan Walsh	23¨C2¨C2 (11 KO)	5
Super Featherweight	14 April 2018	England Sam Bowen	14¨C0 (10 KO)	0
Lightweight	20 April 2019	Wales Joe Cordina	9¨C0 (7 KO)	0
Light Welterweight	13 October 2018	England Robbie Davies Jr	18¨C1 (12 KO)	1
Welterweight	8 March 2019	Wales Chris Jenkins	21¨C3¨C2 (8 KO)	0
Light Middleweight	27 October 2018	England Ted Cheeseman	15¨C1 (9 KO)	0
Middleweight	22 December 2018	Wales Liam Williams	20¨C2¨C1 (15 KO)	1
Super Middleweight	3 November 2018	England Zach Parker	17¨C0 (11 KO)	0
Light Heavyweight	23 March 2019	England Joshua Buatsi	10¨C0 (8 KO)	0
Cruiserweight	22 September 2018	England Lawrence Okolie	12¨C0 (9 KO)	1
Heavyweight		vacant		


Princess Maria Theresa of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Princess Maria Theresa
Duchess of Braganza
Princess Maria Theresa of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg.jpg
Born	4 January 1870
Rome, Papal States
Died	17 January 1935 (aged 65)
Vienna, Austria
Spouse	Infante Miguel, Duke of Braganza
(m. 1893; his death 1927)
Issue	
Isabel Maria, Princess of Thurn and Taxis
Infanta Maria Benedita
Infanta Mafalda
Maria Ana, Hereditary Princess of Thurn and Taxis
Infanta Maria Ant¨®nia
Infanta Filipa
Infante Duarte Nuno, Duke of Braganza
Infanta Maria Adelaide
House	L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg
Father	Charles, Prince of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg
Mother	Princess Sophie of Liechtenstein
Princess Maria Theresa of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg[1][2] (German: Maria Theresa, Prinzessin von L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg[2]) (4 January 1870, Rome, Papal States[1][2] ¨C 17 January 1935, Vienna, Federal State of Austria[1][2]) was a Princess of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg and a member of the House of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg by birth and an Infanta of Portugal, Duchess consort of Braganza, and titular Queen consort of Portugal through her marriage to Miguel, Duke of Braganza, Miguelist claimant to the throne of Portugal from 1866 to 1920.


Contents
1	Family
2	Marriage and issue
3	Titles and styles
4	Ancestry
5	References
Family
Maria Theresa was the fifth child and fourth daughter[1][2] of Charles, 6th Prince of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg, brother of titular Queen consort of Portugal Adelaide of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg, and his wife Princess Sophie of Liechtenstein.[1][2] Maria Theresa was an elder sister of Aloys, 7th Prince of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg.[1][2]

Marriage and issue
Maria Theresa married her first cousin Infante Miguel, Duke of Braganza, only son and second eldest child[1][2] of former King Miguel of Portugal and his wife Adelaide of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg,[1][2] on 8 November 1893 in Kleinheubach, Kingdom of Bavaria.[1][2] Maria Theresa and Miguel had eight children:

Dona Isabel Maria of Braganza (1894¨C1970), married Franz Joseph, 9th Prince of Thurn and Taxis and had issue
Dona Maria Benedita of Braganza (1896¨C1971), died unmarried and without issue
Dona Mafalda of Braganza (1898¨C1918), died unmarried and without issue
Dona Maria Ana of Braganza (1899¨C1971), married Karl August, 10th Prince of Thurn and Taxis and had issue
Dona Maria Ant¨®nia of Braganza (1903¨C1973), married Sidney Ashley Chanler (son of William Astor Chanler) and had issue
Dona Filipa of Braganza (1905¨C1990), died unmarried and without issue
Dom Duarte Nuno, Duke of Braganza (1907¨C1976), married Dona Maria Francisca of Orl¨¦ans and Braganza and had issue
Dona Maria Adelaide of Braganza (1912¨C2012), married Nicolaas van Uden and had issue
Titles and styles
4 January 1870 ¨C 8 November 1893: Her Serene Highness Princess Maria Theresa of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg
8 November 1893 ¨C 31 July 1920: Her Royal Highness The Duchess of Braganza
31 July 1920 ¨C 17 January 1935: Her Royal Highness The Dowager Duchess of Braganza
Ancestry
Ancestors of Princess Maria Theresa of L?wenstein-Wertheim-Rosenberg


Millard Fuller
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Millard Fuller
Born	January 3, 1935
Lanett, Alabama, United States
Died	February 3, 2009 (aged 74)
near Albany, Georgia, United States
Nationality	American
Alma mater	Auburn University,
University of Alabama
Occupation	Missionary, humanitarian, founder of Habitat for Humanity International, founder of The Fuller Center for Housing
Spouse(s)	Linda Fuller (n¨¦e Caldwell)
Parent(s)	Render and Estin Cook Fuller
Millard Dean Fuller (January 3, 1935 ¨C February 3, 2009)[1] was the founder and former president of Habitat for Humanity International, a nonprofit organization known globally for building houses for those in need, and the founder and president of The Fuller Center for Housing. Fuller was widely regarded as the leader of the modern-day movement for affordable housing and had been honored for his work in the United States and abroad.


Contents
1	Personal life
2	The housing movement
2.1	Koinonia Farm
2.2	Zaire
2.3	Habitat for Humanity
3	Recognition
4	Bibliography
5	References
6	External links
Personal life
Fuller was born in Lanett, Alabama, on January 3, 1935, to Render and Estin Cook Fuller. Render was employed by Lanett Bleachery and Dye Works and Estin was a homemaker. Estin died in 1938 at age 27 and Render was remarried in 1941 to Eunice Stephens. Render became self-employed with a small grocery store, ice cream shop and cattle farming. Fuller had two half-brothers by stepmother Eunice, Nick and Doyle. Nick died in 2006.

Fuller majored in economics at Auburn University ('57) and received a law degree from the University of Alabama ('60). He married Linda Caldwell of Tuscaloosa, Alabama, in 1959. A successful businessman and lawyer, Fuller became a self-made millionaire by age 29.[2] In 1968, after giving up their wealth to refocus their lives on Christian service, Fuller and his wife, Linda, moved with their children to an interracial farming community in southwest Georgia. Koinonia Farm, founded by Clarence Jordan in 1942, became home to the Fuller family for five years until they moved to Zaire (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) as missionaries in 1973 with the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ).[3]

Upon returning to the United States, the Fullers began a Christian ministry at Koinonia Farm building simple, decent houses for low-income families in their community using volunteer labor and donations, and requiring repayment only of the cost of the materials used. No interest was charged, as it is with traditional mortgages, and no profit was made. These same principles guided the Fullers in expanding this ministry, called Partnership Housing, into a larger scale ministry known as Habitat for Humanity International. That vision was expanded in 2005 in the founding of a new non-profit housing organization, The Fuller Center for Housing.

Fuller died unexpectedly on February 3, 2009 while on route to the hospital in nearby Albany, Georgia, aged 74.[1]

The housing movement
Koinonia Farm
In 1965, the Fuller family stopped to visit friends at Koinonia Farm on a road trip from NYC. After spending several hours with the intentional community's founder, Clarence Jordan, Millard and Linda decided to stay and began a relationship with Jordan that ultimately led to the creation of Habitat for Humanity.

Jordan espoused an expression of Christianity which motivated him and the Fullers to seek ways to express God's love to their poorer neighbors. Koinonia Farm became Koinonia Partners in 1968 as the small community undertook several new projects, the primary focus of which was Partnership Housing. Believing that what the poor needed was capital, not charity,[4] Jordan and Millard Fuller, along with other members of the Koinonia community, planned to develop a revolving "Fund for Humanity" which would take in donations that would be used to purchase building materials. Volunteer laborers would construct simple, decent houses along with the families who would eventually own the houses. The homeowners would then repay the cost of the materials to the Fund for Humanity at 0% interest. In this way, the work was not a give-away program and the funds repaid were then used to begin work on additional houses.

Zaire
Fuller moved his family to Zaire in 1973 to implement the ideals of Partnership Housing in the African context.[5] Again, as missionaries of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the Fullers began work in Mbandaka, a city of extreme poverty in the western part of the country. Among other projects, Fuller developed and oversaw what would be the first step in the international housing ministry. Undeveloped land in the center of Mbandaka was given by the government for the purpose of building a 100-house development. The units were constructed and sold to families using the Fund for Humanity and additional projects were planned before the Fullers returned to the United States in 1976.

Habitat for Humanity
Main article: Habitat for Humanity
The possibility of utilizing the Fund for Humanity to address housing needs in the United States on a broader scale began in San Antonio, Texas, in 1976. Concerned residents worked with Fuller to develop a program similar to that in Zaire, using volunteer labor to construct affordable, safe houses for needy families in San Antonio's slums. Soon the idea took hold in Appalachia, and by 1981, just five years from its inception, Habitat for Humanity had affiliates in fourteen states and seven foreign countries.

In early 1984, Millard courted the man who would become Habitat's most famous volunteer, President Jimmy Carter. A native of Plains, Georgia, just a few miles from Habitat's headquarters in Americus, Georgia, Carter gave not only his name and reputation to the new non-profit, but his own resources as well. Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter would make financial contributions regularly, but most significantly to Habitat, they would develop the Jimmy Carter Work Project, an annual week-long effort of building Habitat homes all over the world. The Carters participated all week at these events which came to attract thousands of volunteers each year.[6]

The Carters' involvement with Habitat for Humanity propelled the organization to even faster growth. By 2003, Habitat affiliates worldwide had built over 150,000 homes and were active in 92 nations.[7]

Disputes between Fuller and the Habitat International board of directors regarding the direction of the organization came to a head in 2004. He and Linda were fired in March 2005 amid allegations of inappropriate behavior by him directed toward a female employee and conflicting opinions about future plans for Habitat's expansion.[8] Sexual abuse allegations had been made by numerous women in the 1990s and 2000s. In the 1990s, Fuller was reprimanded by the Habitat Board of Directors after several women came forward. Those complaints were settled internally, but Fuller was warned. When a subsequent new allegation was made about an incident in 2003, Fuller was forced to resign.[9]

John Wieland, a Georgia developer who has built 26 houses for Habitat for Humanity and donated more than $500,000 to the organization, who was on the board in 1990-91, said this: "Our conclusion was that Millard was a hugger and was misinterpreted, and some people went out of their way to make something big out of something that wasn't really that big".[10]

Fuller continued his work in the housing movement with the establishment of the Fuller Center for Housing in April 2005.[11] He expanded on the foundation of Habitat by encouraging communities to create "collaborative and innovative partnerships" to address the housing needs of the most needy in communities. He continued to travel extensively, speaking at Habitat affiliates and Fuller Center Covenant Partnerships to raise awareness, funds and volunteers in his effort to eradicate poverty housing from the face of the earth.

Fuller had a simple burial and is buried on the grounds of Koinonia Farm.

Recognition
Fuller was the recipient of numerous awards and more than 50 honorary degrees. In September 1996, United States President Bill Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, and said, "Millard Fuller has done as much to make the dream of homeownership a reality in our country and throughout the world as any living person. I don't think it's an exaggeration to say that Millard Fuller has literally revolutionized the concept of philanthropy." In 1999, Fuller received the Award for Greatest Public Service Benefiting the Disadvantaged, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards.[12] In October 2005, the Fullers were honored by former President George H. W. Bush and the Points of Light Foundation with a bronze medallion embedded in The Extra Mile national monument in Washington, DC.


Millard and Linda Fuller honoree medallion located on The Extra Mile memorial beginning at the corner of Pennsylvania Avenue and 15th Street, NW and continues north on 15th Street to G Street, NW. There, it turns east on G Street for two blocks to its intersection with 13th Street, in Washington, DC.
[13]

Bibliography
Building Materials for Life, Volume III (Smyth & Helwys Publishing, Inc., 2007). ISBN 978-1-57312-486-7.
Building Materials for Life, Volume II (Smyth & Helwys Publishing, Inc., 2004). ISBN 978-1-57312-420-1.
Building Materials for Life, Volume I (Smyth & Helwys Publishing, Inc., 2002). ISBN 978-1-57312-404-1.
More Than Houses: How Habitat for Humanity Is Transforming Lives and Neighborhoods (Word, Inc., 2000). ISBN 0-8499-3762-0.
A Simple, Decent Place to Live: The Building Realization of Habitat for Humanity (Word, Inc., 1995). ISBN 978-0-8499-3889-4.
The Theology of the Hammer (Smyth & Helwys Publishing, Inc., 1994). ISBN 978-1-880837-92-4.
The Excitement Is Building (Word Publishing, 1990). ISBN 978-0-8499-0747-0. Co-authored with Linda Fuller.
No More Shacks!: The Daring Vision of Habitat for Humanity (Word Publishing, 1986). ISBN 978-0-8499-3050-8. Co-authored with Diane Scott.
Love in the Mortar Joints (New Century Publishers, Inc., 1980). ISBN 978-0-695-81444-1.
Bokotola (New Century Publishers, Inc., 1977). ISBN 978-0-8096-1924-5.


Dragon kiln
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Excavated floor of a dragon kiln, 40 metres long, of the Southern Song official kiln at Jiaotanxia in Hangzhou
A dragon kiln (Chinese: ý¸G; pinyin: l¨®ng y¨¢o; Wade¨CGiles: lung-yao) or "climbing kiln", is a traditional Chinese form of kiln, used for Chinese ceramics, especially in southern China. It is long and thin, and relies on having a fairly steep slope, typically between 10¡ã and 16¡ã,[1] up which the kiln runs. The kiln could achieve the very high temperatures, sometimes as high as 1400 ¡ãC,[2] necessary for high-fired wares including stoneware and porcelain, which long challenged European potters, and some examples were very large, up to 60 metres long,[3] allowing up to 25,000 pieces to be fired at a time.[4] By the early 12th century CE they might be over 135 metres long, allowing still larger quantities to be fired; more than 100,000 have been claimed.[5]


Contents
1	History
2	Characteristics
3	Notes
4	References
History
According to recent excavations in Shangyu District in the northeast of Zhejiang province and elsewhere, the origins of the dragon kiln may go back as far as the Shang dynasty (c. 1600 to 1046 BCE), and is linked to the introduction of stoneware, fired at 1200 ¡ãC or more. These kilns were much smaller than later examples, at some 5¨C12 metres long, and also sloped far less.[6]

The type had certainly developed by the Warring States period,[7] and by the Eastern Wu kingdom (220¨C280 CE), there were over 60 kilns at Shangyu. Thereafter it remained the main design used in southern China until the Ming dynasty. The pottery areas of south China are mostly hilly, whereas those on the plains of north China typically lack suitable slopes; here the mantou kiln type predominated.[8]

The Nanfeng Kiln in Guangdong province is several centuries old and still functioning. It was a producer of Shiwan ware as well as architectural ceramics, and today also functions as a tourist attraction.[9]

Characteristics

Japanese chambered version
The kilns were normally made of brick, and are one type of "cross-draught" kilns, where the flames travel more or less horizontally, rather than up from or down to the floor.[10] The firing time could be relatively short, meaning about 24 hours for a small kiln.[11] Early kilns were rising tunnels, not divided into chambers, but with a step at intervals giving relatively flat floor levels, and perhaps using gravel or similar material on the floor to allow vertical stacks to be rested. From the Southern Song period (1127¨C1279), some kilns were built as a series of chambers, stepped as they ran up the slope,[12] and with connecting doors to allow access to both the kiln-workers during loading and unloading, and the heat during firing. There might be up to 12 chambers.[13] Chambered kilns were usual for making Longquan celadon.[14]

The main fire chamber was at the bottom, but there might be additional "stoke holes" to allow adding extra fuel at intervals up the slope, as well as peep holes to allow sight of the interior. At the far, top, end there was a chimney, but given the up-draught of the slope, this did not need to be tall, and might be omitted altogether.[15] The size and shape of the kilns and chambers within varied considerably. Firing was begun at the bottom end and moved up the slope.[16] The fuel might be wood or (generally less often) coal, which affected the atmosphere of the firing; wood giving a reducing atmosphere and coal an oxidizing one.[17] The weight of pottery produced was about the same as the weight of wood required.[18] Generally saggars were used,[19] at least in later periods. These were an innovation of Ding ware from the north in the Song dynasty.[20]

The kilns allowed large quantities of pottery to be fired at high temperatures, but the firing was not usually even across the length of the kiln, which often produced different effects on pieces at different levels. Very often the higher chambers produced the better pieces, as they heated up more slowly.[21] As one example, the wide range of colours seen in Chinese celadon wares such as Yue ware and Longquan celadon is largely explained by variations in firing conditions.[22] Variations in the shades of white porcelains between and within the northern Ding ware and the southern Qingbai were also the result of the fuel used.[23] Some of the most advanced chambered kilns were built to fire Dehua porcelain, where precise control of high temperatures was essential.[24] The dragon kiln form was copied in Korea, from sometime between 100 and 300 CE, and much later in Japan in various types of climbing anagama kilns, and elsewhere in East Asia.[25]

The large quantities fired were not unique to Asian pottery; the largest kilns making ancient Roman pottery, of a totally different form, could fire up to 40,000 pieces at a time.[26]


Czaplino, Podlaskie Voivodeship
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
See also: Czaplino, Greater Poland Voivodeship
Czaplino
Village
Skyline of Czaplino
Czaplino is located in PolandCzaplinoCzaplino
Coordinates: 53¡ã6¡äN 23¡ã2¡äE
Country	 Poland
Voivodeship	Podlaskie
County	Bia?ystok County
Gmina	Choroszcz
Population	120
Czaplino [t??a?plin?] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Choroszcz, within Bia?ystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland.[1] It lies approximately 5 kilometres (3 mi) south-east of Choroszcz and 10 km (6 mi) west of the regional capital Bia?ystok.

The village has a population of 120.


Memorial Chapel (University of Maryland)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Memorial Chapel
Memorial Chapel at UMCP, front view off-center, August 21, 2006.jpg
A front view of Memorial Chapel in 2006
Wikimedia | ? OpenStreetMap
General information
Status	The Chapel's steeple is the highest point on campus[1]
Type	Carillon
Architectural style	Georgian
Location	South campus, on the corner of Chapel Lane and Regents Drive
University of Maryland, College Park campus
Coordinates	38.984¡ãN 76.941¡ãWCoordinates: 38.984¡ãN 76.941¡ãW
Completed	1952
Design and construction
Architect	Henry Powell
Website
Memorial Chapel Website
Memorial Chapel is a non-denominational building on the campus of the University of Maryland, College Park, constructed to honor those associated with the university who had lost their lives serving in the United States Armed Forces.[2] The building, designed by Henry Powell Hopkins, actually is made up of three chapels: the Main Chapel, the West Chapel, and the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament.[3] A Vietnam Veterans Memorial was constructed on the Chapel grounds in 1988.[4][5] The steeple of the Chapel is the highest point on campus.[1]


Contents
1	History
2	Usage
3	The Garden of Reflection and Remembrance
4	References
History
In 1946, the university's Board of Regents approved the construction of the chapel, after four students presented a petition of 1,348 signatures to the Board for the construction of an interdenominational place of worship on campus. In 1948, it was decided that the building would be dedicated to veterans of World War I and World War II. The building's dedication took place on October 12, 1952, with then-Maryland Governor Theodore McKeldin delivering the dedication address. Alumni donations led to a restoration in the 1980s,[6] and the Class of 1997's Class Gift was a restoration of the Chapel's West Courtyard.[7]

For the first 40-plus years of the Chapel's existence, the Memorial Chapel carillon rang out Maryland's state song, "Maryland, My Maryland." On April 21, 1999, however, the carillon began to play the University of Maryland alma mater "Hail! Alma Mater." The carillon has continued to chime out the alma mater before noon daily. The Class of 1992's Senior Class Gift was a refurbishment of the carillon.[8]

Usage

The iconic steeple of the Chapel can be seen from all over campus and College Park.

Cercis canadensis at Memorial Chapel on University of Maryland Arboretum & Botanical Garden
The Memorial Chapel attracts over 80,000 visitors each year, and hosts upwards of 1,200 events annually, including commencement ceremonies, concerts, convocations, lectures, and weddings. Weddings at the Chapel are particularly popular among Maryland alumni and members of the university community, as 84% of the weddings that have taken place at the Chapel had at least one connection to the university.[8] Visitors of the Chapel include former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Senator John McCain, Senator Joseph Tydings, and former Maryland Governor Robert Ehrlich.[6] A Veterans Day ceremony is held at the Chapel annually.[9]

The Chapel is often used as place of remembrance and reflection by the university community, particularly in the aftermath of great tragedies; it has been an important meeting place and symbol during the Vietnam War, and in the wake of September 11, Challenger, Columbia, 2004 Tsunami, and Virginia Tech disasters.[6]

The Garden of Reflection and Remembrance
In 2007, following the September 11th and Virginia Tech tragedies, an initial grant was awarded to the Memorial Chapel to create a garden for reflection on the south side of the building for the university community. Among the features of the garden are a labyrinth and a walk of remembrance.[10] The groundbreaking for the garden took place on May 25, 2010.[11]


Frenchman's Cay
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Frenchman's Cay
Frenchman's Cay is located in British Virgin IslandsFrenchman's CayFrenchman's Cay
The location of Frenchman's Cay within the British Virgin Islands
Show map of British Virgin Islands
Show map of Caribbean
Show all
Geography
Location	Caribbean Sea
Coordinates	18.383¡ãN 64.700¡ãWCoordinates: 18.383¡ãN 64.700¡ãW
Archipelago	Virgin Islands
Administration
United Kingdom
British Overseas Territory	British Virgin Islands
Additional information
Time zone	
AST (UTC-4)
ISO code	VG
Frenchman's Cay is an island of the British Virgin Islands in the Caribbean. It is located 2 km (1.2 mi) southeast from Great Thatch and is located just east of Little Thatch by a distance of approximately 400 m (440 yd). Frenchman's Cay is connected to the main island of Tortola by a very short bridge to Tortola's West end. This cay is approximately 1.6 km (1 mi) long and about 500 yd (460 m) wide. Frenchman's Cay has a number of houses, two restaurants, a marina, and a hotel on it. The hotel is called Frenchman's Hotel and is actually a resort complex on the island.


Roe I Biplane
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Roe I Biplane
Role	Experimental aircraft
Manufacturer	Alliott Verdon Roe
Designer	Alliott Verdon Roe
First flight	8 June 1908
Number built	1
The Roe I Biplane (often later referred to as the Avro Biplane) was the first powered aircraft to be designed, built, and flown in England. Designed in an attempt to claim a prize offered by the Brooklands Automobile Racing Club, it was designed and built by Alliott Verdon Roe, who based it on a powered model with which he had won a Daily Mail prize of ¡ê75 at Alexandra Palace in April 1907.[1] This prize was substantially larger: the club committee was offering ¡ê2,500 for the first person to fly a circuit of their three-mile (4.8 km) race track by the end of the year. In addition the Daily Graphic was offering a ¡ê1,000 prize for a flight of more than a mile (1.6 km).[2]

The Roe biplane was built in the coachhouse of Roe's brother in Putney and transported to Brooklands for testing in September 1907.[2] It was an unequal-span canard configuration two-bay biplane without any vertical stabilising surface or rudder and was originally powered by a 9 hp (7 kW) JAP engine mounted in front of the wing and driving a two-bladed aluminium pusher propeller mounted behind the wings. This proved insufficiently powerful to get the craft airborne. Roe continued work on his aircraft, borrowing a French Antoinette engine of 24 hp (18 kW) to use instead. In order to carry the additional weight of this engine, Roe fitted additional lifting surfaces at mid-gap in the inner bay of the wing structure. With this motor, Roe was able to make several short flights in the aircraft; the first on 8 June 1908.[3]

One of the conditions of Roe's occupation of his shed at Brooklands was that it was to be used as a refreshment room on race days and on the first of these the aircraft was damaged when being manhandled over a fence by Brooklands racetrack attendants. Roe repaired the machine and some further short flights were made before he was evicted from Brooklands on 17 July 1907. Roe dismantled the aircraft and returned the engine, since he could not afford to buy it.[4]

In 1988, a non-flying replica was constructed for the 80th anniversary of Roe's first flight and is displayed at the Brooklands Museum. In 2008, a taxyable replica was constructed for the museum to celebrate the flight's centenary.


Contents
1	Specifications (Antoinette engine)
2	See also
3	References
4	Further reading
5	External links
Specifications (Antoinette engine)
Data from Jackson 1990 p.3

General characteristics

Length: 23 ft (7.0 m)
Upper wingspan: 36 ft (11 m)
Lower wingspan: 30 ft (9.1 m)
Empty weight: 350 lb (159 kg)
Gross weight: 650 lb (295 kg)
Powerplant: 1 ¡Á Antoinette 8V V-8 water cooled, 24 hp (18 kW)
Propellers: 2-bladed, 6 ft 8 in (2.03 m) diameter


Doncaster (horse)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Doncaster
Doncaster (GB).jpg
Sire	Stockwell
Grandsire	The Baron
Dam	Marigold (1860)
Damsire	Teddington[1]
Sex	Stallion
Foaled	1870
Country	United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
Colour	Chestnut
Breeder	Sir Tatton Sykes
Owner	James Merry
Robert Peck
Hugh Grosvenor, 1st Duke of Westminster
Trainer	Robert Peck
Record	10: 4 wins
Earnings	?4,825 (for the Derby)
Major wins
Epsom Derby (1873)
Goodwood Cup (1874)
Ascot Gold Cup (1875)
Alexandra Plate (1875)
Last updated on 21 February 2011
Doncaster (1870 ¨C January 1892) was an English Thoroughbred racehorse and sire. He was the winner of the 1873 Epsom Derby and the sire of the great stallion Bend Or. Through Bend Or he is the direct male-line ancestor of most modern thoroughbreds.


Contents
1	Breeding
2	Racing career
3	At stud
4	Pedigree
5	See also
6	References
7	External links
Breeding
Doncaster was foaled at the Sledmere Stud, Yorkshire, Great Britain and was sired by "The Emperor of Stallions", Stockwell, who had won both the 2,000 Guineas and the St. Leger Stakes; Stockwell was a leading sire during his later years, producing many classic winners. Doncaster's dam Marigold had a fairly good career on the track, and was sired by The Derby winner Teddington.[2]

Doncaster, a chestnut with a white blaze originally named "All Heart and No Peel", was raised at the Sledmere Stud before he was sent to the Tattersalls auction. James Merry bought the colt for 950 guineas, changed his name to Doncaster (after the racecourse), and sent him to trainer Robert Peck.

Racing career
The colt did not compete as a two-year-old, partially due to a kick to the stifle. Doncaster began racing as a three-year-old, first appearing at the 2,000 Guineas (where he was unplaced to winner Gang Forward). He won his next race (the Derby) easily. He then raced in the Grand Prix de Paris, finishing third to winner Boiard, before being beaten by a head at the St. Leger. He did not do well in his next run, the Grand Duke Michael Stakes, but finished his season second in the Newmarket Derby.

His four-year-old career was respectable, with a dead heat second place with Flageolet in the Ascot Gold Cup (won by Boiard), before a win at the Goodwood Cup. As a five-year-old, he won both the Ascot Gold Cup and the Alexandra Plate; the races were two days apart.[2]

At stud
Doncaster was then retired. Peck purchased him for ¡ê10,000 and immediately selling the stallion to the Duke of Westminster (for whom he was also a trainer) for ¡ê14,000. The Duke had been searching for a stallion prospect, with a good pedigree and racing record, to stand at his Eaton Stud in Cheshire. Doncaster was bred to the mare Lily Agnes (by Macaroni), who produced the filly Farewell, a 1,000 Guineas winner. Doncaster's most famous son was Bend Or, the Derby winner and prolific sire. He also sired Sir Reuben and Cambusmore. Other noted offspring were:

Muncaster: sired Saraband (broodmare sire of Pretty Polly), Lady Muncaster, and Lady Loverule (dam of 1904 Derby winner St. Amant).[3]
Sandiway: won the Coronation Stakes at Royal Ascot; dam of only three foals, but influential in many American-bred horses (she was in the pedigree of Sting ¡ª sire of Dr. Fager ¨C twice).
Empress Elisabeth of Austria saw Doncaster while visiting Eaton, and reportedly fell in love with him. She eventually purchased him, for ¡ê5,000, and he lived at her Kisber Stud until his death at the age of 22 in January 1892. His blood lives on through his son, Bend Or.[3]

Pedigree
Pedigree of Doncaster chestnut stallion, 1870[1]
Sire
Stockwell
Ch. 1849¡¡	The Baron
Ch. 1842¡¡	Birdcatcher	Sir Hercules
Guiccioli
Echidna	Economist
Miss Pratt
Pocahontas
B. 1837¡¡	Glencoe	Sultan
Trampoline
Marpessa	Muley
Clare
Dam
Marigold
Ch. 1860	Teddington
1848	Orlando	Touchstone
Vulture
Miss Twickenham	Rockingham
Electress
Ratan mare	Ratan	Buzzard
Picton Mare
Melbourne Mare	Melbourne
Lisbeth (Family 5-e)[2]


Parque Viva
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Parque Viva
Location	Calle Rinc¨®n Chiquito, Alajuela, Costa Rica
Operator	Grupo Nacion
Capacity	16,000 (Coca-Cola Amphitheatre)
1,800-9,000 (Centrok?lbi)
Opened	11 April 2015
Parque Viva is a sporting and entertainment center located in Alajuela, Costa Rica.

Parque Viva is the first entertainment center in Central America.[1] The park spanned over a total area of 30,000 square meters, includes Coca-Cola Amphitheater, Grupo Sur Circuit, and Centrok?lbi. The park offers space for 4,500 parking spaces. Parque Viva was built around the defunct race track Aut¨®dromo La Gu¨¢cima.[2] The capacity of the amphitheater is 16,000.[3] The first concert held in the amphitheatre was by the Orquesta Filarm¨®nica de Costa Rica during its grand opening.[4]

Concerts
The following is a list of concerts, showing date, artist or band, tour, opening acts, attendance and revenue.

Year	Date	Artist(s)
(Opening act)	Tour	Attendance	Revenue	Ref.
2015	October 18	Katy Perry
(Tinashe)	Prismatic World Tour	16,199 / 16,199	$1,423,310	[5]
2016	June 5	Maluma	Pretty Boy, Dirty Boy World Tour	N/A	[6]
July 17	Maroon 5	Maroon V Tour	18,404 / 18,404	$1,687,040	[7]
2017	May 1	Slayer	Repentless Tour	N/A	[8]
June 6	Ed Sheeran
(Antonio Lulic)	¡Â Tour	17,464 / 17,464	$1,288,350	[9]
July 9	Ariana Grande
(¨¦chele Miel, F¨¢tima Pinto, Victoria Mon¨¦t and CNCO)	Dangerous Woman Tour	11,141 / 11,141	$776,744	[10]
October 15	Fifth Harmony	The PSA Tour	1,482 / 3,400	$91,358	[11]
2018	February 22	Andrea Bocelli	Live in Costa Rica	N/A	[12]
March 15	The Killers	Wonderful Wonderful World Tour	9,849 / 10,287	$876,499	[13]
May 12	Roberto Carlos	Live in Costa Rica	3,569 / 3,569	$321,118	[14]


Simon E. Dow House
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Dow House
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
Simon E. Dow House.jpg
Dow House
Simon E. Dow House is located in IowaSimon E. Dow House
Show map of Iowa
Show map of the United States
Show all
Location	Prince St. at south city limits,
Dow City, Iowa
Coordinates	41¡ã55¡ä30¡åN 95¡ã29¡ä50¡åWCoordinates: 41¡ã55¡ä30¡åN 95¡ã29¡ä50¡åW
Built	1872
NRHP reference #	72000471[1]
Added to NRHP	June 14, 1972
The Simon E. Dow House (also known as the Dow House) is a historic house located on Prince Street in Dow City, Iowa.

The two-story, 13-room, red brick house was built in 1872 by Simon E. Dow (Simeon E. Dow), who in 1869 co-founded Dow City and later became one of its leading businessmen.[2] In 1970, it was bought by the Crawford County Conservation Board to be restored and is now open for public tours from 12:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., starting the last week of May through Labor Day.[1][3]

The house was added to the National Register of Historic Places on June 14, 1972.[1]


Gaby, Aosta Valley
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For other uses, see Gaby (disambiguation).
Gaby
Comune
Comune di Gaby
Commune de Gaby
Gaby piazza e municipio.jpg
Coat of arms of Gaby
Coat of arms
Location of Gaby
Gaby is located in ItalyGabyGaby
Location of Gaby in Italy
Show map of Italy
Show map of Aosta Valley
Show all
Coordinates: 45¡ã42¡ä16¡åN 7¡ã53¡ä2¡åE
Country	Italy
Region	Aosta Valley
Province	none
Frazioni	Bouri, Chanton Desor, Chanton Desout, Chef-lieu (communal capital), Crusmato, Gattinery, Gruba, Niel, Pont-de-Trentaz, Rubin, Serta Desor, Serta Desout, Tzen de la boa, Pro Du Toucco, Yair Desout, Moulin, Palatz, Halberpein, Voury, Yair Desor, Zappegly, Zuino
Government
 ? Mayor	Pierluigi Ropele
Area[1]
 ? Total	32.17 km2 (12.42 sq mi)
Elevation	1,047 m (3,435 ft)
Population (2018-01-01)[2]
 ? Total	467
 ? Density	15/km2 (38/sq mi)
Demonym(s)	Gaben?ois
Time zone	UTC+1 (CET)
 ? Summer (DST)	UTC+2 (CEST)
Postal code	
11020
Dialing code	0125
Patron saint	Michael (archangel)
Saint day	29 September
Website	Official website

Niel village with the tipic houses called Stadel
Gaby (Walser: Goobi; Issime Walser: ¨¹berlann, lit. 'Upper Land'; Vald?tain: Gabi) is a town and comune in the Aosta Valley region of northwestern Italy.

The Italian Sunflower Festival is held there during summer. Gaby is home to the 19th century Sanctuary of Vourry.


House at 118 Greenwood Street
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
House at 118 Greenwood Street
U.S. National Register of Historic Places
WakefieldMA 118GreenwoodStreet.jpg
House at 118 Greenwood Street is located in MassachusettsHouse at 118 Greenwood Street
Show map of Massachusetts
Show map of the United States
Show all
Location	118 Greenwood St., Wakefield, Massachusetts
Coordinates	42¡ã28¡ä28¡åN 71¡ã4¡ä12¡åWCoordinates: 42¡ã28¡ä28¡åN 71¡ã4¡ä12¡åW
Built	1875
Architectural style	Stick/Eastlake
MPS	Wakefield MRA
NRHP reference #	89000702 [1]
Added to NRHP	July 06, 1989
The House at 118 Greenwood Street in Wakefield, Massachusetts is a rare well-preserved example of a Stick-style house. The ?2 1?2-story house was built c. 1875, and features Stick-style bracing elements in its roof gables, hooded windows, with bracketing along those hoods and along the porch eave. Sawtooth edging to sections of board-and-batten siding give interest to the base of the gables, and on a projecting window bay. The house was built in an area that was farmland until the arrival of the railroad in the mid-19th century.[2]

The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1989.[1]


James Donnellan
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Unbalanced scales.svg
The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to do so are met. (August 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Sir James Donnellan (c. 1588 ¨C 1665) was an Irish lawyer and politician, who became Chief Justice of the Irish Common Pleas in 1660. His direct descendent, also named James Donnellan, is currently Chief Justice of the Australian High Court and resides in Jerrabomberra, NSW. He was unusual among the Irish judges of the time in being of Gaelic descent; and more remarkable in that his service as a judge under Oliver Cromwell did not disqualify him from service after the Restoration of Charles II.


Contents
1	Personal life
2	Education
3	Career
4	Civil War
5	Chief Justice
6	References
7	Notes
Personal life
He was the third son of Nehemiah Donnellan, Archbishop of Tuam, and his wife Elizabeth O'Donnell. He married firstly Anne Barry, sister of James Barry, 1st Baron Barry of Santry and secondly Sarah Wheeler, daughter of Jonas Wheeler, Bishop of Ossory and Martha Tucker, and widow of Matthew Tyrrell. By Sarah he was the father of Nehemiah Donnellan, Chief Baron of the Irish Exchequer and also of several daughters.[1]

Nemehiah Donnellan was the father of Anne Donnellan, who founded the Donnellan lectures in Trinity College Dublin, and Katherine Donnellan, who married Robert Clayton, Bishop of Cork and Ross. James's principal residence was Rathswire, County Westmeath. He is buried in Christchurch Cathedral, Dublin.[2]


Portrait c.1740 of Robert and Katherine Clayton by James Latham: Katherine Clayton (n¨¦e Donnellan) was James Donnellan's granddaughter
Education
He had a distinguished career at Trinity College Dublin which he was later to represent in the Irish House of Commons. He was scholar in 1607, Bachelor of Arts in 1610, Fellow in 1612 and Master of Arts in 1613.[3]

He entered Lincoln's Inn in 1616 and was called to the Bar in 1623. He entered the King's Inn the same year and was Treasurer in 1639.[4]

Career
He was elected to the House of Commons in 1634. In 1627 he became third justice of Connacht and was promoted to the office of Chief Justice of Connacht in 1634. He owed the promotion to the goodwill of the Lord Deputy of Ireland, the Earl of Strafford, who hoped, rather cynically, to appease the Old Irish faction by appointing a few "token" judges of Gaelic origin.[5] He became a judge of the High Court in 1637, being made third justice of the Court of Common Pleas (Ireland).[6]

Civil War
When the English Civil War broke out Donnellan was initially a Royalist; he had long been close to Ulick Burke, 5th Earl of Clanricarde in whom Charles I placed great trust.[7] The King summoned Donnellan to Oxford to treat with the Irish Confederacy.

After the defeat of the Royalist cause, according to Henry Cromwell, Donnellan became a faithful supporter of the new regime, diligently persecuting his former allies.[8] He was one of four commissioners appointed to administrate justice in Leinster in 1651.[9] He served on the High Court of Justice in 1653, and returned to the Court of Common Pleas as its second Justice in 1655.

Chief Justice
On the face of it Donnellan's loyal service to Cromwell, combined with his Gaelic origins, should have debarred him from judicial office, especially one of the four highest offices, at the Restoration of Charles II. James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde, the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, who personally chose the new judges, had no strong objection to men of Gaelic background, but did normally require a record of loyalty to the Crown.

Ball suggests that while Donnellan's first wife Anne had been dead for many years he was still on friendly terms with her brother Lord Santry, now to be appointed Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, who used his influence on Donnellan's behalf.[10] Donnellan was restored to Royal favour, made Chief Justice of the Common Pleas and knighted.

He was, for the time, a very old man, and his health quickly failed: well before his death the English Government was thinking of replacing him, but Ormonde requested that they wait till the old man was actually dead.[11] In the event he was still in office when he died in 1665.


Batai virus
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Batai virus
Virus classification
Group:	Group V ((?)ssRNA)
Order:	Bunyavirales
Family:	Peribunyaviridae
Genus:	Orthobunyavirus
Batai virus (BATV) is a RNA virus belonging to order Bunyavirales, genus Orthobunyavirus.


Contents
1	Introduction
2	Structure
3	Viral Classification and Genome
4	Replication of Batai Virus
5	Associated Diseases
6	References
Introduction
Batai virus (BATV) is an enveloped, single-stranded, negative sense RNA genome.[1] It is a member of the genus Orthobunyavirus and belongs to the order Bunyavirales; it was first isolated from Culex mosquitoes in Malaysia in 1955.[2] Evidence from serological surveillance and virus isolation shows that this virus is widely distributed around the world. Similar to other orthobunyaviruses it contributes to both human and animal disease. In humans it has been noted in causing severe fever, and in bovines has been associated with premature birth, birth defects, and increased abortion rates. It is transmitted through mosquito bites, ticks, and biting midges, and occurs from cold to tropical regions of Africa, Asia, and Europe.[2]

Structure
The structure of Batai virus (BATV) consists of an enveloped nucleocapsid that is composed of three RNA segments: small (S), medium (M), and large (L). The S segment encodes the nucleocapsid (N) and the non-structural (NSs) proteins. The M segment encodes the virion surface glycoproteins (Gn, Gc) and non-structural proteins (NSm). The L segment encodes for the replicase/ transcriptase L protein. The nonstructural proteins NSm participate in virus assembly and NSs plays a key role in counteracting the host immune response by blocking alpha/beta interferon induction [3] The full-length genome of NM/12 consists of a 947 base pair nucleotide S segment, a 4405 base pair nucleotide M segment, and a 6870 base pair nucelotide L segment. It also contains one open reading frame that encode three proteins of 151, 943, or 1395 amino acids.[2]

Viral enveloped nucleocapsids utilize membrane glycoproteins on their surface to mediate entry into host cells. Averaging of glycoprotein spikes of membrane viruses, such as HIV-1, has been a particularly successful approach for studying their structure.[4] An understanding of the structure is integral for revealing both the molecular basis of virus¨Chost interactions and guiding antiviral and vaccine design development. A software named Jsubtomo enables visualization of the structure of viral glycoprotein spikes to a resolution in the range of 20-40 ? and allows for study of the study of higher order spike-to-spike interactions on the virion membrane.[4]

Extensive research has yet to be performed on the detailed crystalline structure of Batai virus, but research on the closely related Bunyamwera virus has shown a distinct functionality of each of the two nucleocapsid side chains. An N-terminal arm and a C-terminal tail were found to interact with neighboring NP protomers to form a tetrameric ring-shaped organization. Each protomer bound a 10-nucleotide RNA molecule, which was acquired from the expression host, in the positively charged crevice between the N and C lobes.[5] Cryo-electron microscopy has also determined that whilst Bunyamwera virions are pleomorphic in shape, they display a locally ordered lattice of glycoprotein spikes. Each spike protrudes 18 nanometers from the viral membrane and becomes disordered upon introduction to an acidic environment.[6]

Although the exact icosahedral symmetry of a Batai virus viron is yet to be determined, studies using Cryo-electron tomography on related viruses of the Bunyaviridae family have shown that there exists an icosahedral lattice with clear T=12 quasisymmetry.[7] Consequently, this triangulation number would correlate with a viral nuclear capsid exhibiting 720 faces. This study was performed on the Rift Valley Fever Virus (RVFV), which is an arthropod borne disease that is endemic to regions of Africa and Asia, namely the Rift Valley in Kenya from which its name is derived.[8]

Viral Classification and Genome
Batai virus is a member of the genus Orthobunyavirus and a member of the family Bunyaviridae.[9] Batai virus is part of a diverse group of arthropod-borne viruses.[9] Classified via the Baltimore scheme, Batai virus is a negative-sense, single-stranded RNA virus.[9] The orthobunyavirus genome has a characteristic segmented genome, with small, medium, and large (S, M, and L) segments which generally encode the nucleocapsid, envelope protein and the polymerase protein, respectively.[9] The size of the S segment is 943 nucleotides, the size of the M segment is 4440 nucleotides, and the size of the L segment is 6870 nucleotides.[9] In the S segment there are two open reading frames (ORFs), the nucleocapsid and non-structurals which were overlapping.[9] The M segment has a polyprotein precursor in the open reading frame.[9] The L segment encodes for an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.[9]

Batai virus is geographically spread throughout Asia and Europe. It has been shown that batai viruses from Japan, Malaysia and India share homologies in the genomic sequence more so than when virus strains from Europe and Asia are compared to each other. Reassortment of the genome can have some serious effects. It has been observed that reassortment between the M segment and the S and L segments with another strain of Batai virus (BUNV) can cause an increase in the virulence of Batai virus. Reassortment of the genome within the genus Orthobunyavirus are not uncommon and can lead to an increase in virulence.[2]

Replication of Batai Virus
It is well known that the geographical distribution of Batai virus (BATV) includes the regions of Europe, Asia and Africa. The most common vertebrate affected by BATV are domestic pigs, horses, ruminants and wild birds, which have been known to be the primary mammalian hosts. The transmission cycle of BATV occurs in agricultural ecosystems via Anopheles, Culex and Ochlerotatus species mosquitoes in a typical vertebrate¨Cmosquito cycle.[9]

While limited research has been conducted on the viral cycle of the Batai virus, comparable studies with the close relative Bunyamwera virus has shown that viral infection begins in the salivary glands of mosquitos.[10] At the onset of replication the virus particles coalesce into vacuole membranes lining the cytoplasm of the infected cells.[11] Entry into the cell is facilitated by the viral enveloped nucleocapsid, which contains glycoproteins G1 and G2. Encoded by the M RNA segment they are involved in attachment to the host cell through unidentified receptors on the surface and elicit neutralizing antibodies. Transcription of BATV is said to be similar to that of influenza in that mRNA synthesis is primed by cap-containing oligonucleotides that are generated by a certain viral-endonuclease, functioning to cleave the host cell mRNA. These resulting primers are then incorporated into the viral mRNA.[12] BATV will also encode for two non-structural proteins, NSm on the M segment and NSs on the S segment. During the process it is believed that NSm actively participates in assembly of the virus. These newly assembled viral particles will mature over a period of time inside of the hosts cell in the membranes of the Golgi apparatus before being released.[11]

However, while able to replicate in both vertebrate and invertebrate species, in mosquito cells no cell death is observed and persistent infection is established. Whereas in mammalian cells infection is typically categorized as lytic and eventually leads to cell death. This stems from the viruses ability to form clear lytic plaques in cells of vertebrate species but not in those derived from insects.[13] It has been demonstrated in previous studies that in mammalian cells, the NSs protein will induce a shut-off of host protein synthesis which will lead to the death of the host cell. It has also been shown to counteract the host cell antiviral response.[14] This would establish it as the main virulence factor as it acts during the transcriptional phase by inhibiting RNA polymerase II¨Cmediated transcription. Meanwhile, the mosquito cells neither host cell transcription nor translation are inhibited by this fact. It would seem the difference in the behavior of the NSs protein could be one of the factors responsible for the different outcomes of infection attributed to the Batai virus in mammalian and mosquito cells. Some have theorized that a release method that does not rupture the cell membrane could explain why viral replication does not kill mosquito cells and persistence is maintained.[13] Similar NSs proteins of the Rift Valley fever phlebovirus have quite a distinct size and amino acid sequence, but they play a similar role in mammalian cells in overcoming the innate immune responses that are a consequence of the global shut-down of the cells transcription mechanisms. Similar NSs proteins of the Rift Valley fever phlebovirus have quite a distinct size and amino acid sequence, but they play a similar role in mammalian cells in overcoming the innate immune responses that are a consequence of the global shut-down of the cells transcription mechanisms.[15]

Associated Diseases
Batai virus (BATV) is a member of the family Bunyaviridae.[2] Associated viruses include Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, Bunyamwera orthobunyavirus, and severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome.[16]

Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever is one of the viruses that is associated with Batai virus, as it is in the same family Bunyaviridae. This occurs in the same areas throughout the world including Africa, Asia, Europe. It mainly infects farmworkers in these regions of the world, and is a tick-borne illness. Infection results in high fever, chills, severe headache, dizziness, back, and abdominal pains. Other symptoms that have been noted include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric changes. If severe symptoms may include hemorrhages in the skin, causing lesions or bruising. It has a 30% fatality rate.[17]

A closely associated disease is the Bunyamwera virus, which is of the same family and genus as the Batai virus (BATV); it is known to cause Bunyamwera fever. This particular virus is spread by mosquitos biting infected mice and then biting humans.[18]

Batai virus (BATV) is also associated with severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS). This was a recently discovered in China in 2011 and is transmitted either directly to humans through ticks, or to house pets as an intermediate host and then on to humans. Symptoms are characterized by fever, vomiting, diarrhea, thrombocytopenia and leukopenia. SFTS virus has a 6-30% fatality rate.[19]


Stone crosses in Cornwall
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Fig. 1: some stone crosses in Cornwall

Fig. 2: some more stone crosses

The hundreds of Cornwall
Wayside crosses and Celtic inscribed stones are found in Cornwall in large numbers; the inscribed stones (about 40 in number) are thought to be earlier in date than the crosses and are a product of Celtic Christian society. It is likely that the crosses represent a development from the inscribed stones but nothing is certain about the dating of them. In the late Middle Ages it is likely that their erection was very common. Since they occur in locations of various types, e.g. by the wayside, in churchyards, and in moorlands. Those by roadsides and on moorlands were doubtless intended as rout markings. A few may have served as boundary stones, and others like the wayside shrines found in Catholic European countries. Crosses to which inscriptions have been added must have been memorial stones. According to W. G. V. Balchin "The crosses are either plain or ornamented, invariably carved in granite, and the great majority are of the wheel-headed Celtic type." Their distribution shows a greater concentration in west Cornwall and a gradual diminution further east and further north. In the extreme northeast none are found because it had been settled by West Saxons. The cross in Perran Sands has been dated by Charles Henderson as before 960 AD; that in Morrab Gardens, Penzance, has been dated by R. A. S. Macalister as before 924 AD; and the Doniert Stone is thought to be a memorial to King Dumgarth (died 878).[1]

Celtic art is found in Cornwall, often in the form of stone crosses of various types. Cornwall boasts the highest density of traditional 'Celtic crosses' of any nation (some 400). Charles Henderson reported in 1930 that there were 390 ancient crosses and in the next forty years a number of others have come to light.[2] In the 1890s Arthur G. Langdon collected as much information as he could about these crosses (Old Cornish Crosses; Joseph Pollard, Truro, 1896) and one hundred years later Andrew G. Langdon has done a survey in the form of five volumes of Stone Crosses in Cornwall, each volume covering a region (e.g. Mid Cornwall) which the Federation of Old Cornwall Societies has published.[3]

Similar crosses are also found on Dartmoor in Devon.

In modern times many crosses were erected as war memorials and to celebrate events such as the millennium. "Here is an example of continuity in cultural traits extending over many generations: for we can look beyond the medieval cross to the inscribed stone and even farther back to the prehistoric m¨ºnhir, and yet bring the custom right up-to-date with the twentieth-century war memorial."¡ªW. G. V. Balchin (1954).[4]

"The Celtic crosses found in their hundreds at the roadside, in churchyards, towns and in the open landscape ... are the most pervasive and memorable evidence of the presence of Christianity across medieval Cornwall. They were long considered to be pre-Conquest but it is now believed that they began to be erected in the 9th century with the majority dating between then and the 13th century, though documentary evidence suggests that some were still being put up as late as the mid 15th century. Two of the best pre-Conquest examples are St Piran's Cross near St Piran's Oratory, mentioned in a charter of 960, and King Doniert's Stone (a cross shaft) near St Cleer commemorating Doniert's death in 875. Most crosses are of granite and they are especially numerous ... in the Cardinham area and ... around Sancreed, with smaller clusters in Wendron and Lanivet. The most distinctive is the Celtic wheel-head design, which has many variants, but there are significant numbers of holed crosses that are pierced right through, and numerous Latin crosses. The most elaborate are the larger and more decorated churchyard crosses ... Their purpose is varied: the most common is the wayside cross to mark directions, and there are also a large number of boundary crosses... Some are memorial crosses and a few are true village or market crosses, though some of the latter have been adapted from wayside crosses. In situ crosses are rare, with many rediscovered, relocated and re-erected since the later 19th century, and more still coming to light today."--Peter Beacham.[5]


Fig. 3: some more stone crosses

 

Fig. 4: some more stone crosses

 

Fig. 5: some more stone crosses

 

Fig, 6: some more stone crosses

 
Contents
1	Crosses in East hundred
2	Crosses in Kerrier hundred
3	Crosses in Lesnewth hundred
4	Crosses in Penwith hundred
5	Crosses in Powder hundred
6	Crosses in Pydar hundred
7	Crosses in Stratton hundred
8	Crosses in Trigg hundred
9	Crosses in West hundred
10	Some modern crosses
11	Footnotes
12	References
13	Further reading
Crosses in East hundred
Parishes C - Q
In the churchyard of Callington there is a Gothic lantern cross. It was first mentioned by the historian William Borlase in 1752. Each of the four faces of the cross head features a carved figure beneath an ogee arch. The heads of these figures have been chiselled off, no doubt in the Commonwealth period.[6]


Fig. a1: the cross in the churchyard of Laneast

Fig. a2: the cross on Laneast Down
In the churchyard of Laneast is a four-holed Cornish cross (fig. a1) which was found in 1952 buried in the churchyard. The lower part of the shaft and the base were made in 1954.[7] There is a Cornish cross on Laneast Down (fig. a2). It is unusual in being made of Polyphant stone rather than granite; the two sides of the head are elliptical and have Latin crosses.[8]

There is a Cornish cross at Treniffle in the parish of Lawhitton; it was found built into an old barn at Tregada Farm about 1883 and then placed in her garden by Mrs. Morshead.[9]


Fig. a3: a cross shaft by the roadside near Lewannick
Arthur Langdon (1896) records two Cornish crosses in the parish of Lewannick: one is Holloway Cross at a road junction one and half miles north of the churchtown; the other is a cross head in the grounds of a house called Trelaske.[10]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records a Cornish cross and a cross base at North Coombe; and another cross base at Sturt's Corner, both in the parish of Linkinhorne.[11] Andrew Langdon (1996) records the cross at Northcoombe (it was set up on a stone in 1908).[12]

A stone wayside cross was found at Hendra Farm, Menheniot, in the early 1960s. It had been buried upside down in the ground to form a gatepost. In 1991 the two separate pieces of the cross were repaired and erected on a new base near Hendra farmhouse.[13]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded a Cornish cross in the grounds of Trebartha Hall, North Hill; it had been found built into the gable of a nearby cottage.[14]


Fig. a4: the cross in Quethiock churchyard
There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of Quethiock. An account of its discovery was published in the Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall; vol. 7, 1882. Arthur Langdon said of it: "Undoubtedly this is a magnificent monument, and in regard to height is, with the exception of the cross in Mylor churchyard, since discovered, the tallest in Cornwall".[15]

Parishes S - T
There is a Cornish cross at Carracawn in the parish of St Germans.[16]

There are two stone crosses in the churchyard of St Ive. One is a Latin wayside cross which was found in use as a gatepost in one of the glebe fields near the churchyard in 1932. A month later it was erected in its present position. The other is an incomplete cross which was found in the vicarage garden in 1965. In 1982 it was erected in the churchyard.[17]

In the churchyard of St Stephens-by-Saltash is a Gothic lantern cross. This cross was first recorded by Joseph Polsue in 1872; it stood for many years in the vicarage garden. In the 1970s it was resited in the churchyard. Andrew Langdon is of the opinion that it originally stood in the churchyard.[18] There is a Cornish cross at a road junction between the village of Trematon and the castle.[19]

There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of St Thomas-by-Launceston, found when the church was rebuilt in 1869¨C70.[20]

A stone cross stands by the side of the road at Crafthole, Sheviock. It was first recorded in 1858 as a cross without a base. By 1896 it was standing on a base; in the 1950s it was removed to the side of the road from its previous site in the middle. Crafthole was granted a weekly market in 1315; it has been suggested that this cross was the market cross.[21]

There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of Tresmeer. According to Arthur Langdon it was formerly in the churchyard of Laneast. He observed it in the 1890s placed at the head of the grave of a late vicar of Tresmeer.[22]

Crosses in Kerrier hundred
Parishes B - L

Fig. b1: the cross head at Breage
In the churchyard of Breage there is an unusual Hiberno-Saxon cross head.[23] There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard at Godolphin Cross. In 1886 it was moved to the churchyard having been found in use as a gatepost on the Chytodden estate.[24]

There are two Cornish crosses (illustrated Fig. b6) in the parish of Budock; both are in the churchyard. There is also a cross base at Nangitha.[25]


Fig. b2: the war memorial of Constantine, Kerrier
Andrew Langdon (1999) lists twelve stone crosses, or parts of crosses located in the parish of Constantine. One of these was carved and erected in 1991. Several have been transferred from other sites. The stone cross at the cross-roads in High Cross was found in 1992 and re-erected nearby at the crossroad, in April 2000.[26][27] Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded six Cornish crosses in the parish; in the churchyard, at Bosvathick, at Merthen, at Nanjarrow, at Trevease and at Trewardreva {illustrated Fig. b8).[28] In 1993 a medieval stone cross was found built into a collapsing Cornish hedge at the junction of the road from Constantine to Penryn and the road from Mawnan Smith (illustrated Fig. b9).[29]

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. b10) in the churchyard of Cury; it is probably the old churchyard cross but was found in a ditch nearby in 1849 and set up in its present position.[30]


Fig. b3: a cross in Gunwalloe churchyard
The small cross in Gunwalloe churchyard was found in the 19th century and taken to Penrose. At a later date it was placed in the churchyard.[31]

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. b11) in the churchyard of Gwennap which was moved to the vicarage garden in the 1840s from Chapel Moor. It has a crude crucifixus figure and a small Latin cross on the front and a large Latin cross on the back and is probably a fragment of a larger cross. There is also an ornamented cross shaft which was found in the church wall about 1860 and by mistake used again in the vestry foundations.[32]

There are three Cornish crosses in Helston: one in Cross Street (illustrated Fig. b12) and two in Mr. Baddeley's garden (Cross Street). One of the latter crosses was removed from Tresprison, Wendron, and other from near Trelill Holy Well, Wendron. The cross from Trelill has ornament on the front and back of the shaft.[33] One of the crosses is now Grade II* listed as "Stone cross near junction with Church Street".

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. b13) in the village of Lizard, Landewednack.[34]

Parishes M
In the churchyard of Mabe there is a Celtic cross (illustrated Fig. b14) which was found in the vicarage garden and installed near the porch, at some time between 1919 and 1930.[35] There is another cross at Helland, a farm where there was a garden formerly the site of an ancient chapel.[36]


Fig. b4: cottages with a roadside cross at Mawgan in Meneage
There is a fragment of a cross head built into the north aisle wall at the parish church of Mawnan; it was found in the churchyard in 1881.[37]

Mullion: There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. b15) near the hamlet of Predannack. It has a broad Latin cross on the front and an incised Latin cross on the back.[38]


Fig. b5: the cross in the churchyard of Mylor
The cross in the churchyard of Mylor is the largest in Cornwall (10 ft high).[39] The cross was only identified as such in 1870 as it had been buried head downwards in the earth so that the part above ground could serve as a post. The stone is 17 ft 6 in long and there is a local tradition that it marked the site of St Mylor's grave not far from the place where it was found. It is thought[40] to be of pre-Christian origin. It was set up as it is now by sailors from HMS Ganges.[41][42] There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of Flushing. It was found in a farm building at Porloe in 1891 and moved to the churchyard. The head has a crude crucifixus figure on the front and a Latin cross on the back.[43]

Parishes S - W
At Tregullow near Scorrier, St Day, there are two Cornish crosses: one of them formerly stood between Ponsanooth and Pengreep and was for a time used as a gatepost.[44] There are two Cornish crosses in the gardens of Scorrier House: the original site of the first cross is unknown; on the front of it is a curious representation of Christ with his right hand raised and on the back a Latin cross. The other cross originally stood at Rame in the parish of Wendron; the shaft is ornamented on all four sides.[45]

There are two Cornish crosses in the parish of St Gluvias; one at Enys and one at Penryn. The cross at Enys (illustrated Fig. b16) was originally at Sancreed and was set up at Enys in 1848. The small cross at Penryn was once built into the fish market; when this was pulled down the cross was saved and resited near the town hall in 1895.[46]


The roadside cross at Merther Uny
There are four Cornish crosses in the parish of Stithians; they are in the vicarage garden, and at Repper's Mill and Trevalis. The cross at Repper's Mill has a crude crucifixus figure on the front and a Latin cross on the back. There are two crosses at Trevalis: both have a crude crucifixus figure on the front and a Latin cross on the back. One of the crosses formerly stood at Hendra Hill near the churchtown but was moved to Trevalis about 1860.[47] Another cross (illustrated Fig. b17) stands in the grounds of Tretheague House. There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. b18) in the churchyard of Penmarth (historically in the parish of Wendron); it was found in a stream near Tolcarn Wartha Mill and brought to the churchyard for preservation.[48]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of seven stone crosses in the parish of Wendron, including two at Merther Uny (one illustrated above right & Fig. b7). The other crosses were in the churchyard, and at Boderwennack, Bodilly, Manhay-vean and Trenethick. There is also an early cross-slab in the church.[49] An old carved granite stone can be seen approximately 300 yards (270 m) south-west of Porkellis Crossroads in the private field on the corner near Bodilly.[citation needed] The stone stands 4 ft 5 in (1.35 m) high, with a bas-relief cross on one side and an incised cross on the other. According to local oral history, it was called the "Wendron God" and people made the sign of the cross when passing by. Formerly located on a hill between Carilley and Burhos, it was unlawfully removed several times in the 19th century and finally relocated to Bodilly in 1886.[50][51] Arthur Langdon (1896) gave the following account of the Merther Uny crosses: "The cross stands in situ on the Merther Uny estate, on Polglaze Hill, by the left-hand side of the road from St. Wendron to Constantine. Formerly there was a road leading down to Merther Uny old churchyard, the entrance to which was close to the cross; but all traces of this road have now disappeared. A tradition is still believed in the neighbourhood that a man lies buried beneath the cross. The monolith is known locally as 'Meruny Cross'."--"The cross occupies its original site, near the south side of the entrance to the old churchyard, and stands on a base ... The cross has some very curious ornament, and in many points resembles that at Roche ..."[52] Another cross was originally at Rame, Wendron: it is described above under St Day.

Gallery

Fig. b6: one of the crosses in the churchyard of Budock

 

Fig. b7: a cross carved onto a standing stone next to the lane from Treloquithack to Brill[53]

 

Fig. b8: a cross beside the road at Trewardreva Mill

 

Fig. b9: a cross beside the road from Constantine to Penryn

 

Fig. b10: the cross in Cury churchyard

 

Fig. b11: the cross in the churchyard of Gwennap

 
Fig. b12: the cross in Cross Street, Helston

 

Fig. b13: the Cornish cross at Lizard

 

Fig. b14: the cross in the churchyard of Mabe

 

Fig. b15: Predannack Cross

 

Fig. b16: the Cornish cross at Enys

 

Fig. b17: an ancient cross in the grounds of Tretheague House

 
Fig. b18: Carnmenellis churchyard

Crosses in Lesnewth hundred
Parishes A - L
In a field on the west side of the parish church of Advent stands a tall and elegant Cornish cross.[54]


Fig. c1: St Nonna's Cross
Arthur Langdon (1896) records seven stone crosses in the parish of Altarnun, of which one is in the churchyard. A Celtic cross from the time of St Nonna is located by the church gate of Altarnun.[55] This cross consists of a cross head resting on a stone base.[56] Another cross is located at Two-gates by the road about half a mile (0.8 km) north of the church; it is locally known as "Short Cross" and is probably a fragment of what was once a taller stone.[57] Other crosses are known as Sanctuary Cross, Halvana Cross, Occasiney Cross, Trekennick Cross, Tresmeak Cross and St Vincent's Mine Cross.[58]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records two Cornish crosses in the parish of Davidstow, one at Lambrenny and one at Trevivian.[59]

Forrabury and Minster: Outside the churchyard of Forrabury stands a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. c3) which has been moved from its original site, which is likely to have been near the field called Cross Park.[60] At Waterpit Down (in Minster parish on the road towards Launceston) are the remains of a cross probably from the 10th century.[61]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of seven stone crosses (illustrated Fig. c4 & c5) in the parish of Lanteglos-by-Camelford, including three at the rectory.[62]

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. c6) in Lesnewth churchyard which consists of an ancient cross head mounted on a modern shaft.[63]

Parishes M - W

Fig. c2: the churchyard cross at Michaelstow
There is fine tall Cornish cross in the churchyard of Michaelstow. Its original location is unknown; until it was removed in 1883 it formed part of a series of steps up to the churchyard.[64] There are three Cornish crosses and a cross base at Trevenning. In 1896 they were in Mr. Bastard's garden. Mr. Bastard had brought two of the crosses from part of Bodmin Moor in the parish of St Breward in 1888.[65] Trevenning Cross (illustrated top right, no. 70) is at a road junction about one and a half miles northeast of St Tudy churchtown. It was found in the hedge some years before 1896 close to its present position by J. R. Collins of Bodmin.[66]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records five stone crosses in the parish of St Clether of which four are at the old manor house of Basill Barton.[67]

There are three Cornish crosses of early dating in the parish of St Juliot.[68][69] There are two Cornish crosses in the churchyard. One of the crosses was originally sited at Anderton Mill, Lesnewth, but was brought here for preservation in 1852.[70]

There are two stone crosses in the parish of Tintagel; they have both been moved from their original positions. Aelnat's cross (illustrated Fig. 2) which was found at Trevillet and then moved to the Wharncliffe Arms Hotel at Trevena, is finely carved. The inscription can be read as 'Aelnat fecit hanc crucem pro anima sua' (?lnat made this cross for [the good of] his soul) (the back of the stone has the names of the four evangelists): the name of this man is Saxon (together with Alfwy mentioned in 1086 he is the only Anglo-Saxon recorded in connection with the area).[71][72] One of Thomas Hardy's poems, "By the runic stone" (1917) was interpreted by Evelyn Hardy as referring to Aelnat's cross.[73] At a crossroads near Bossiney stands Hendra Cross or Pentaly Cross (towards Trevillet; illustrated Fig. c7): it has been moved from its former position due to road widening in 1959.[74][75]

There is an early Cornish cross in the churchyard of Trevalga.[76]

At Lower Youlton farm, Warbstow, is a Cornish cross in use as a footbridge; it has undergone much wear from foot passengers and its original location is unknown.[77]

Gallery

Fig. c3: the Cornish cross at Forrabury

 

Fig. c4: a Cornish cross in the churchyard at Lanteglos; it was found in a blacksmith's shop at Valley Truckle

 

Fig. c5: the Cornish cross, Trevia, Camelford

 

Fig. c6: the cross in the churchyard of Lesnewth

 

Fig. c7: Hendra or Pentaly Cross

Crosses in Penwith hundred
Parishes C - G
Camborne churchyard (illustrated Fig. d10) contains a number of crosses collected from nearby sites: the finest is one found in a well at Crane in 1896 but already known from William Borlase's account of it when it was at Fenton-ear. Arthur Langdon (1896) records six crosses in the parish, including two at Pendarves (Troon), two at Trevu and one outside the Institute.[78] One of the Pendarves crosses was found in a ditch on the estate and then set up near the house. It has a crude crucifixus figure on the front and a Latin cross on the back. The other is a cross head found in the kitchen garden at Pendarves.[79]


Fig. d1: This cross once stood at the north of Nine Maidens Downs and marked the boundary between Camborne, Crowan, Wendron and Illogan parishes. It now stands in the grounds of Clowance House. The crossroads was known as Binnerton Cross; the head has a Greek cross on one side and a crude figure of Christ on the other.[80]
There are four Cornish crosses in the parish of Crowan; one cross is at Praze-an-Beeble and three are at Clowance. The original location of the Praze cross is unknown. Two of the Clowance crosses have a cross on one side and a crude crucifixus figure on the other; one formerly stood at Bold Gate on Clowance Down and the other at Binnerton Cross. The third cross is curiously ornamented on the front and back of the shaft; it formerly stood at the northwest corner of Nine Maidens' Down.[81]

There is a Cornish cross at Rosemorran, Gulval; on the front of the head is a crude crucifixus figure and on the back is a cross of unusual shape (the only similar one is at Lelant).[82]

There are three Cornish crosses in the parish of Gwinear; one on Connor Down and two in the churchyard. One of those in the churchyard was brought there from a road junction about half a mile east of the churchtown.[83]

There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of Gwithian.[84] (See also fig. d11, below)

Parishes I - P

Fig. d2: the cross at Whitecross
The Cornish cross in the churchyard of Illogan is probably in situ.[85] It is Grade II listed.

Arthur Langdon (1896) records eight stone crosses in the parish of Lelant, of which four are in the churchyard (two crosses: illustrated Fig. d12 & d13); the other crosses are at Brunian Cairn, Lelant Lane, Sea Lane and the churchtown.[86] Three of the crosses are Grade II* listed as "Stone cross in churchyard, immediately south of St Uny's Church", "Stone cross in furthermost southern churchyard south of St Uny's Church" and "Stone cross in western cemetery (at crossing of paths) west of St Uny's Church". See also Fig. d14.

There are four Cornish crosses in the parish of Ludgvan; one is at Crowlas (illustrated Fig. d17), another at White Cross (this has a cross on one side of the head and a crude crucifixus figure on the other; illustrated Fig. d2 above right) and two are in the churchyard (illustrated Fig. d15 & d16).[87]


Fig. d3: an old cross in hedge near Lesingey Lane

Fig. d4: the cross at Heamoor

Fig. d5: Tremethick Cross

Fig. d6: Trengwainton Cross
Arthur Langdon (1896) records eight stone crosses in the parish of Madron, of which one is in the churchyard (illustrated Fig. d18) and one is at Heamoor (illustrated Fig. d4). The others are at Boscathnoe (illustrated Fig. d21), Boswarthen (illustrated Fig. d19), Parc-an-Growse, Trembath Cross (illustrated Fig. d20) and Trengwainton Carn.[88] Tremethick, Tremathick or Trereife cross (illustrated Fig. 21a) is a stone Latin cross which was brought to Tremethick Cross from Rose-an-Beagle in the parish of Paul.[89] There is a Cornish cross by the road near the churchyard of Newlyn; it was found at Trereiffe about 1870 and much later placed near the church by the Rev. W. L. Lach-Szyrma.[90]


Fig. d7: a cross at Kerris Farm
Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of five stone crosses in the parish of Paul. One is at Carlankan, one at Halwyn and one at St Paul Down. There are also crosses in the vicarage hedge and on the churchyard wall; the former is a short shaft and unpierced wheel-head with a Greek cross in relief.[91] and the latter is the head of a pierced wheel-head cross with a figure of Christ in relief on one side and five bosses on the other.[92] (illustrated Fig. d22; the latter has a crude crucifixus figure on one side).[93] See also the cross at Kemyel Drea illustrated Fig. d23.

Penlee Cross is a large granite cross situated outside Penlee House at Penzance; it dates from the 11th century and has been moved, on at least three occasions, and its original location being the Green Market in Penzance.

Arthur G. Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of six stone crosses in the parish of Phillack, including two in the churchyard. The others were at Copperhouse, at Bodriggy, in a field and in the rectory garden.[94]

Parishes S - Z

Fig. d8: the cross at Crows-an-Wra
Arthur Langdon (1896) records twelve crosses in the parish of St Buryan of which one is in the churchyard.[95] A letter, dated 25 June 1879, to The Cornishman newspaper complained of the platform of the village cross (illustrated Fig. d25), in front of the churchyard gate, being used as the site for the mid-summer bonfire, leaving the cross blackened and charred.[96] Boskenna cross (illustrated Fig. d26) is a Cornish cross which stands where three roads meet south-east of St Buryan churchtown. It was found buried in a hedge at this road junction in 1869. Only the carved upper part of the cross is ancient.[97] A cross near St Loy's Cove is illustrated Fig. d27; a cross near Down's Barn Farm is illustrated Fig. d28.

Langdon (1896) recorded that six stone crosses existed in the parish of St Erth, including two in the churchyard.[98] One of the crosses is illustrated Fig. d29.

There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of St Hilary; it has a Latin cross on both sides. There is another cross on Trewhela Lane.[99]

There is a Cornish cross at Penbeagle near St Ives, bearing an incised Latin cross.[100]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of seven stone crosses in the parish of St Just in Penwith, including two in the vicarage garden and two at Kenidjack. Another cross has been built into the church wall; there are also crosses at Leswidden (illustrated Fig. 30) and Nanquidno. There is a Cornish cross in the vicarage garden of Pendeen.[101]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records five stone crosses in the parish of St Levan, of which one is in the churchyard (illustrated Fig. d31), one on the churchyard wall and the others at Rospletha (illustrated Fig. d32), Sawah and Trebehor.[102]


Fig. d9: one of the crosses on St Michael's Mount
In the grounds of the castle of St Michael's Mount are a number of medieval crosses (including a late 15th-century lantern cross) and an octagonal cross shaft.[103]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of eight stone crosses in the parish of Sancreed, including four in the churchyard. One is at Anjarden; one of the crosses in the churchyard was found at Trannack and another at Sellan. Two more crosses in the churchyard are ornamented (one of them is illustrated top right Fig. 1, no. 37; the other below, Fig. d33); the heads are unusual and the only ones of their type and the shafts are ornamented, in one case on all four sides and in the other on three sides. These two crosses are Hiberno-Saxon and both have the same unusual shape of the heads, with a crucifixus on one side. There is also a cross at Brane (illustrated Fig. d34) which serves as a boundary stone between Brane and Boswarthen. Another cross at Lower Drift was found about 1850 and there is yet another at Trenuggo Hill.[104][105]

There are five Cornish crosses in the parish of Sennen. One is at Escalls and another at Sennen Green. Trevilley cross is one of only two crosses with a crucifixus figure on a cross carved onto the stone (there is a cross on the other side of the head). A cross on the churchyard wall came from a site near the Giant's Stone. A fine cross in the cemetery adjoining the churchyard (illustrated Fig. d35) was found in use as a footbridge near Trevear and moved to the churchyard in 1878. About 1890 it was moved to its present position.[106] A cross at Mayon Farm is illustrated below, fig. d36.

There was a Cornish cross at Tredorwin, Towednack; it was found in use as a building stone in a cottage at Coldharbour in 1880.[107] It is now in the churchyard (illustrated Fig. d37). The stone in the porch of the church forms a bench; the cross shaft has crosses at both ends.[108]

There are three Cornish crosses in the parish of Zennor: one is in the vicarage garden and two are in the churchyard. Those in the churchyard are fixed on the tombstone of the Rev. William Borlase, Vicar of Zennor (died 1888).[109]

Gallery

Fig. d10: two crosses in Camborne churchyard

 

Fig. d11: a Cornish cross just off a footpath leading east above the Red River valley near Gwithian

 

Fig. d12: one of the crosses in Lelant churchyard

 

Fig. d13: another cross in Lelant churchyard

 

Fig. d14: Woodlands cross, Lelant

 

Fig. d15: the tall Cornish cross in the churchyard of Ludgvan

 
Fig. d16: the short Cornish cross in the churchyard of Ludgvan

 

Fig. d17: the cross at Crowlas

 

Fig. d18: the churchyard cross of Madron

 

Fig. d19: Boswarthen cross

 

Fig. d20: Trembath Cross

 

Fig. d21: Boscathnoe Cross

 
Fig. d21a: Tremethick Cross

 

Fig. d22: the cross on the churchyard wall at Paul

 

Fig. d23: a cross at Kemyel Drea near Castallack

 

Fig. d24: the cross at Carharrack

 

Fig. d25: one of the crosses in the churchyard of St Buryan

 

Fig. d26: Boskenna cross

 
Fig. d27: a cross near St Loy's Cove

 

Fig. d28: a cross near Down's Barn Farm, St Buryan

 

Fig. d29: a cross at St Erth

 

Fig. d30: the cross at Leswidden

 

Fig. d31: the cross in the churchyard of St Levan

 

Fig. d32: the cross at Rospletha

 
Fig. d33 a cross in Sancreed churchyard

 

Fig. d34: Brane cross

 

Fig. d35: a Cornish cross in the cemetery, Sennen

 

Fig. d36: a cross at Mayon Farm, Sennen

 

Fig. d37: a Cornish cross in the churchyard of Towednack

Crosses in Powder hundred
Parishes C - L

Fig. e1: Nancor Cross, by a road junction east of Grampound
Creed-with-Grampound: Dr. Reginald Merther-derwa, rector of Creed in 1423¨C47 left a will providing for the erection of a series of stone crosses at Camborne. The five similar stone crosses in Creed parish, including one now at Grampound church, may also have been due to him.[110] Merther-derwa's will says "New stone crosses to be put up of the usual kind in those parts of Cornwall from Kayar Reslasek to Camborne church where dead bodies are rested on the way to their burial, that prayers may be made and the bearers take some rest". As there are no Gothic stone crosses in Camborne or adjacent parishes it is likely that these crosses were set up at Creed instead. In Creed parish there are the remains of four 15th-century crosses, three of which were cut from Pentewan stone. The market cross of Grampound is more ornate than the other three crosses. Fair Cross is a Gothic cross shaft. Nancor Cross has a cross head which was found in the 1920s near Nancor Farm; it was later set on a new shaft and erected beside the A390 road. In 1995 it was broken into four pieces but repaired in 1996. The fourth cross consists only of a cross base at Creed Lane.[111]

There are two Cornish crosses in the parish of Feock: one is in the churchyard and the other at Trelissick. The cross in the churchyard probably dates from the 13th century (it has a crude crucifixus figure on one side of the head and a foliated cross on the other). The cross at Trelissick was moved from Tredrea in the parish of St Erth in the 1840s; it has a crude crucifixus figure on the front of the head but the back is defaced.[112][113]

There is a fine Cornish cross in the churchyard of Gerrans.[114] According to Andrew Langdon (1994) this cross was not originally a churchyard cross but a wayside cross. No other ancient stone cross exists in the Roseland Peninsula; however a cross called Penpirthe Cross is shown on the parish terrier of 1613 as standing on the boundary of the parishes of Gerrans and Philleigh.[115]

Arthur Langdon (1896) describes a Cornish cross in the manor house grounds at Eastbourne, Sussex, which was originally at Kenwyn. Davies Gilbert, a former resident of the manor house removed it from a roadside gate west of Truro where it was in use as a gatepost and had it transported to Eastbourne in 1817. The shaft is ornamented on all four sides.[116]

The churchyard cross at Lamorran is a fine example of a Gothic stone cross.[117] This cross is made of Pentewan stone; the crosshead is now incomplete as the upper limb is missing.[118]


Fig. e2: Sandyway Cross
There are four stone crosses in the parish of Lanlivery: Trethew Cross consists of a crosshead which was found in 1900 and a separate base; Trevorry or Sandyway Cross was found in 1936; Menawink Cross is a cross with a mutilated head which was found c. 1990 and erected shortly thereafter on the opposite side of the road; Crewel Cross was first reported in 1870 built into a stile (in 1900 the two separate parts were joined together and erected on a base).[119] Two stone crosses from Lanlivery were removed in the 1840s and turned into monuments: one was taken to Boconnoc and one to St Winnow.[120]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded three Cornish crosses and one cross base in the parish of Luxulyan. One cross is in the churchyard (illustrated above right); it was brought there in the 19th century from Three Stiles near Consence. Another cross is at Methrose and the third at Trevellan (lying horizontally and built into a hedge). The cross base is at Trevellan Lane End.[121] Andrew Langdon (1994) does not mention the cross at Methrose. Trevellan Cross was removed from the hedge and erected at Lockengate in 1903; in 1972 it was moved a few yards to the crossroads on the A391.[122]

Parishes M - V
There is a small Cornish cross on top of the church wall at Tresillian, Merther.[123]

Trelowthas Cross was found in the 1940s at Trelowthas in the parish of Probus. Great Trelowthas was the site of one of the medieval chapels in the parish, recorded as licensed in 1379. Probus was one of four places in Cornwall having a right of sanctuary which extended beyond the walls of the church, the others being Padstow, St Keverne and St Buryan. The missing Carvossa cross is thought to have marked the eastern limit of sanctuary and it is likely that this cross marked the western limit.[124]


Fig. e3: the churchyard cross at Roche
There are two Cornish crosses in the parish of Roche: one in a meadow near the rectory garden is thought to be in situ; the other in the churchyard has ornament on the four sides of the shaft.[125] The churchyard cross is made of a massive piece of moorland granite; it has similarities to the cross in the graveyard at Merther Uny. Glebe Cross has crosses in relief on either face of the cross head.[126]

The Old Rectory cross at Ruan Lanihorne is a small Gothic latin cross in the grounds of the Old Rectory. It was found buried in the churchyard before 1920 and taken to what was then the new rectory.[127]

There is a Cornish cross in the churchyard of St Austell which was found buried in the ground on the manor of Treverbyn in 1879.[128] This cross was erected in the churchyard on a new base in 1879. Another cross is in the grounds of a house originally known as Moor Cottage. This house was built in 1819; the cross was brought from Hewas in the parish of Ladock.[129]

The Biscovey Stone, St Blazey, is the shaft of an ancient Celtic cross. It was inscribed, but the text is no longer readable. There are several theories about the stone; one says it dates from around 600 AD to show the Saxon advance into the county, another puts the date at around 900 AD. The head is thought to have been removed during the Reformation. The stone served as a gate post near the St Blazey turnpike gate. In 1896 it was moved to St Mary's Church, Biscovey.[130] Arthur Langdon described the stone in 1896: he read the inscription as "+ Alroron Ullici + filius". It was also described by William Borlase in his Antiquities of Cornwall (1754), pp. 363¨C64.[131]

The churchyard cross of St Dennis has a head of horseshoe shape and is ornamented with some unusual incised ornament.[132]


Fig. e4: St Ewe Cross
A roadside Celtic cross once stood near Nunnery Hill, St Ewe (Charles Henderson in 1925 refers to it being at Lanhadron). However, the crosshead and shaft were thrown down in 1873 by a farmer looking for buried treasure, and both pieces were afterwards lost. The base has survived in situ with an inscription in insular script, unreadable except for the word crucem; Elisabeth Okasha dates the construction of this monument between the ninth and eleventh centuries.[133] There is another cross at Corran, about half a mile east of the churchtown.[134] This cross is also known as Beacon Cross since its site is known as the Beacon. There is a cross at Heligan known as Bokiddick Cross; it came from Bokiddick Farm in the parish of Lanivet which was then owned by the Tremaynes who also owned Heligan. The cross in the churchtown stands on a massive base which is the only original part of it. The stones forming the cross came from elsewhere and nothing is known about the design of the original cross.[135]


Fig. e5: Fentongollan Cross
Fentongollan Cross is a wayside Latin cross in the parish of St Michael Penkevil. Only the upper part of the cross is original. Another cross from this parish was taken to Canada in the 19th century and still exists at Greensville, Flamborough, Ontario.[136]


Fig. e6: Treneague Cross in St Stephen's churchyard; an old cross head set on a 19th-century shaft
Treneague Cross (illustrated Fig. e5) in the parish of St Stephen-in-Brannel consists of an ancient cross head mounted on a modern shaft. The cross head was found at Treneague at the end of the 19th century and afterwards attached to a new shaft and set up in the churchyard. Treneague was the site of a chapel which was licensed in 1381.[137]


Fig. e7: the cross at High Cross
At the edge of High Cross near Pydar Street in Truro, there is an ancient Celtic cross. A cross in Truro was mentioned in a document of 1290. In 1958 during excavations in St Nicholas Street the upper section of a stone cross was found and placed next to the museum. In 1981 it was erected outside the Marks and Spencer store. After it had been extended with a piece of Hantergantick granite it was re-erected at High Cross in 1988 and dedicated in 1992. It is likely that the cross originally at High Cross was a Gothic latin cross and that this cross was originally a simple wayside cross.[138]

The vicarage cross at Veryan consists of an ancient shaft with a modern base and cross head; it was erected early in the 20th century.[139]

Crosses in Pydar hundred
Parishes C - L
In Colan churchyard is a 15th-century Gothic cross.[140][141] This cross, which was untraced for many years, was found near a hedge in 1908 by Dr. W. J. Stephens of the Old Cornwall Society. Initially, it was claimed by owners of the property where it was found. In 1970, the Newquay Old Cornwall Society intervened and were successful in having the cross installed in the churchyard.[142][143]

A Cornish cross stands against the wall of the north transept of Cubert parish church. The small cross head was brought to the churchyard about 1860 from Ellenglaze Lane and mounted on a shaft brought from outside the churchyard.[144]


Fig. f1: Reperry Cross
There are two Cornish crosses and two cross bases (at Tredinnick Cross and Reperry) in the parish of Lanhydrock. One cross is in the churchyard (illustrated Fig. f5) and the other is half a cross head at Treffry. The cross in the churchyard is ornamented on all four sides of the shaft. Of the Reperry Cross only the base remains but the cross was illustrated in the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. 75 (1805).[145] In addition to these there is a cross called Bodwen Cross; this cross was recorded in 1850 but was not mentioned by J. T. Blight or Arthur Langdon. It was found again in 1937 near Helman Tor in the parish of Lanlivery. It was taken from there and erected in the new cemetery at Lanhydrock. A request for it to be returned to Lanlivery to a site on the Saints' Way was refused.[146]


Fig. f2: Fenton Pits Cross
In the churchyard of Lanivet are two ancient stone crosses (illustrated Fig. f6) and a rare example of a hogback grave dating from Viking times. Arthur G. Langdon (1896) also records the existence of four more stone crosses in the parish.[147][148] Andrew Langdon (1994) records 13 crosses: two in the churchyard and Bodwannick Cross, Reperry Cross, St Ingunger Cross (illustrated Fig. f8), Fenton Pits Cross, Lesquite Cross (illustrated Fig. f7), Treliggan Cross, Laninval Cross, Tremore Cross, Woodley Cross, St Benet's Cross and Lamorick Cross.[149]

Parishes P - W
There are two Cornish crosses in the parish of Padstow: one is built into a wall in the old vicarage garden and another is at Prideaux Place (consisting of a four-holed head and part of an ornamented cross shaft). There is also part of a decorated cross shaft in the churchyard.[150]


Fig. f3: St Piran's cross, Perranzabuloe; this cross has been dated by Charles Henderson as before 960 AD
St Piran's Cross at Perranzabuloe (believed to be the earliest recorded stone cross in Cornwall) stands in the dunes between the oratory site and the graveyard of the old church. It is dedicated to tinners and miners and stands 8 feet (2.4 m) high.[151] Arthur Langdon suggested that the shaft had once been ornamented but the ornament had not survived because of the poor quality of the granite.[152]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded four Cornish crosses in the parish of St Allen: one at the farm of Lower Town is buried upside down in the ground; the others are defaced crosses at Tolcarn, Trefronick and Trevalsa.[153] Andrew Langdon (1994) also recorded four crosses as well as a font adapted from a Gothic cross base. Three of these crosses (illustrated Fig. f9 & f10) are in the churchyard, of which one was removed from Trefronick Farm in 1911. Andrew Langdon (citing a 1913 paper by William J. Stephens in the Journal of the Royal Institution of Cornwall) notes that Arthur Langdon had described the same cross twice, as Trevalsa cross and Lower Town cross are the same.[154]


Fig. f4: A cross in St Columb churchyard
There are four Cornish crosses in the parish of St Columb Major: two are in the churchyard (one of these is St Columba's Cross; illustrated Fig. f11), one is at the hamlet of Black Cross and another (defaced) at Black Rock.[155][156]

As of 1896 there were a Cornish cross and four cross bases in the parish of St Columb Minor: the cross was at Cross Close and is unusual in being almost circular in section. This cross, known as Double Stiles or Three Stiles Cross was moved to a new position when a housing estate was built in 1954. A cross formerly at Lavethan, Blisland, was sold in 1991 and set up in a cottage garden in Newquay.[157][158]

There is a stone cross in the churchyard of St Enoder which was found beside the road from the churchtown to Fraddon. It was set up in the churchyard in 1879 but moved to a different position in the churchyard in 1893.[159]

Arthur Landgon (1896) recorded two Cornish crosses in the parish of St Mawgan: one, a small cross, is at Mawgan Cross and the other at Lanherne. The Lanherne cross is a highly ornamented example and stands in the grounds of the nunnery having been brought from Roseworthy in the parish of Gwinear. "It is the most beautiful specimen of an elaborately decorated cross in Cornwall."[160] Andrew Langdon (1994) records four crosses. These are the Lanherne cross, the churchyard cross, Bodrean Cross and Mawgan Cross. The churchyard cross is the best preserved medieval lantern cross in Cornwall. Bodrean Cross (a cross head and small part of the shaft) was found in 1904 at Bodrean Farm in the parish of St Clement. In 1906 the cross head was provided with a new shaft and set up in St Mawgan churchyard.[161]

The mutilated head of a medieval lantern cross was found buried in the churchyard of St Newlyn East in 1959. William Borlase left a description of a lantern cross he had seen at Treledra (Treluddra) Farm; it is probable that these two crosses are the same.[162]

In the parish of St Wenn there is a Cornish cross at Cross and Hand, a place in the valley next to Castle-an-Dinas and in the extreme northwest of the parish.[163] This cross (locally known as Crossy Ann) marks the boundary of the parishes of St Wenn, St Columb Major and Roche.[164]

There are two Cornish crosses and a cross base in the parish of Withiel. One of the crosses is at a road junction about a mile south of the churchtown and the other in the rectory garden. The latter formerly stood in the road outside the rectory but was moved into the garden about 1860; it is in a good state of preservation.[165] The former cross is called Inches Cross; it is thought that most of the cross shaft is buried in the ground.[166]

Gallery

Fig. f5: the cross in the churchyard of Lanhydrock

 

Fig. f6: the cross in Lanivet churchyard

 

Fig. f7: Lesquite Cross

 

Fig. f8: St Ingunger Cross

 

Fig. f9: a cross in the churchyard of St Allen

 

Fig. f10: another cross in the churchyard of St Allen

 
Fig. f11: St Columba's Cross

Crosses in Stratton hundred
In the churchyard of Morwenstow is a granite Celtic cross which is said to have been moved from a nearby moor by Parson Hawker to commemorate the death of his first wife, Charlotte. Her initials C E H are carved on the shaft.[167] A round-headed Celtic cross was found at Tonacombe, Morwenstow, in the early 20th century; no round-headed cross was known north of Laneast before this one was found.[168] This cross is Grade II* listed as "Red Cross Stone in Pleasaunce to the east of Tonacombe Manor".

Crosses in Trigg hundred
Arthur Langdon (1896) records twelve stone crosses in the parish of Blisland, of which one is at St Pratt's Well and four are at Lavethan. Others are Peverell's cross and crosses at Cross Park, in the village, at Tregaddick and two crosses at Trewardale.[169] Andrew Langdon (1996) records crosses at Cross Park, in the churchyard, in the village, as well as St Pratt's Cross, Peverall's Cross, one at Tregaddick, three at Lavethan and three at Trewardale.[170]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records three Cornish crosses at Bodmin; one was near the Berry Tower,[171] one was outside Bodmin Gaol and another was in a field near Castle Street Hill.[172] Carminow Cross (illustrated Fig. g4) is a stone Celtic cross near a major road junction southeast of Bodmin. The cross is a Grade II* listed building.[173] See also Fig. g3.


Fig. g1: Three Holes Cross
Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded that there were six stone crosses in the parish of Egloshayle, including two in the parish churchyard and one at Washaway. Three-holes Cross is about a mile and a half north of Egloshayle at a crossroads.[174] A stone cross head (illustrated Fig. 1, bottom left) at Pencarrow was described by Arthur Langdon (1896). It was found c. 1870 on the estate and afterwards set up in the grounds.[175]

Arthur Langdon (1896) records seven crosses and six cross-bases in the parish of St Breward: two of the crosses are at Lanke; other crosses are at Penvorder, Deaconstow and Middlemoor (illustrated Fig. g5).[176]

There is a Cornish cross at Polrode Mill in the parish of St Kew; its original site is unknown and the head has been damaged.[177] Job's Cross is on the road from Trewethern to St Kew (illustrated g8). See also Fig. g7.


Fig. g2: Penwine Cross
Arthur Langdon (1896) records four Cornish crosses in the parish of St Mabyn: one in the churchyard and others at Colquite, Cross Hill and Penwine.[178] The Penwine cross is at Longstone.

In the churchyard of St Enodoc's Church in the parish of St Minver is a Cornish cross which consists of a head and upper part of the shaft. These were found built into the churchyard wall in 1863.[179] See also Fig. g8.

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated g9) in the cemetery on the other side of the road from the churchyard at St Teath. An account of it was given in the Antiquarian Magazine, August 1883. Part of it was once used as a footbridge; it was afterwards used in the churchyard wall but the parts were reunited and repaired; both the head and the shaft are ornamented. There is also a cross base in the churchyard.[180]

Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded the existence of eight stone crosses in the parish of Temple, including two cross slabs, all in the churchyard.[181] Several of these crosses were subsequently incorporated into a stone outbuilding on the south side of the church.[182]

Gallery

Fig. g3 a Cornish cross on Old Callywith Road, Bodmin[183]

 

Fig. g4: Carminow Cross

 

Fig. g5: Middle Moor cross

 

Fig. g6: a cross in St Kew churchyard

 

Fig. g7: Job's Cross

 

Fig. g8: Porthilly cross (a listed grade 2 medieval four holed cross in Porthilly Churchyard)

 

Fig. g9: St Teath cross

Crosses in West hundred
Parishes B - L
At Boconnoc there are Cornish crosses in the churchyard, on Druids' Hill and in Boconnoc Park. The latter cross was removed here from Lanlivery and has some curious incised ornament.[184]

Killboy or Penventon Cross is a stone cross standing on the route of a disused path which runs from Penventon Farm to Braddock church. An account of this cross was published in The Gentleman's Magazine in 1805. The original site of the cross is uncertain.[185]


Fig. h1: Treslea Cross
Two freestanding Celtic crosses of stone (illustrated Fig. h4, h5 & h5a), bearing inscriptions in Latin have been found in Cardinham; both had been embedded in the walls of the fifteenth-century church and were moved after their discovery to the churchyard. One has been dated to the fifth to eighth centuries, the other to the tenth or eleventh centuries:[186] Arthur Langdon (1896) also records five other stone crosses in the parish.[187] Andrew Langdon (1996) records two crosses in the churchyard, Higher Deviock Cross, Pinsla Cross at Glynn, Poundstock Cross, Treslea or Wydeyeat Cross and Treslea Down Cross.[188]

A cross now in the churchyard of Lansallos was mentioned by Arthur Langdon (1896) as being in a field west of the churchyard. In 1919 the rector had it erected in the churchyard.[189]

There are two stone crosses in the churchyard of Lanteglos-by-Fowey. One is a tall Gothic lantern cross (illustrated Fig. h6) which was found buried in a trench next to the church in 1838. It has been suggested that it was buried deliberately to prevent its destruction by Commonwealth iconoclasts. It was erected in its present position in 1841. The other cross consists of a cross head found in Pont Pill Creek. When it was moved to the churchyard the corresponding shaft was found there and a few years later c. 1910 it was restored and re-erected.[190] A cross known as Polruan or St Saviour's Cross stands at the top of Fore Street in Polruan. The latter name comes from the former chapel of St Saviour nearby.[191]

Tencreek cross and Culverland cross are stone crosses in the churchyard of Liskeard; the former was found in 1903 at Tencreek Farm and was moved to the churchyard in 1908. The latter was also moved here in 1908 and is thought to have come from a site near Trevecca.[192]

In the churchyard of Lostwithiel is a grave of a member of the Hext family with a medieval lantern cross mounted on a modern shaft. The cross head was found in the 19th century at an unknown location and in 1882 set up in the churchyard. It was later moved to its present position.[193]

Parishes S - W

Fig. h2: Long Tom
Arthur Langdon (1896) recorded five Cornish crosses in the parish of St Cleer; one called Long Tom is at St Cleer Common, another is at St Cleer's Well (illustrated Fig. h7) and a cross at Trevorgy is missing. There are also two stones at Redgate of which one is the Doniert Stone and the other is known at the Other Half Stone.[194] Another cross was discovered at East Fursnewth Farm in 1930 and afterwards removed and erected at Pendean House, Liskeard.[195]

A stone cross was found at Tregoad Farm in the parish of St Martin-by-Looe in 1906 built into the wall of a stable. In 1931 it was set up on a new base at Tregoad by the Looe Old Cornwall Society. In 1971 it was removed to the Guildhall Museum in East Looe for preservation. It is a rare example in east Cornwall of a cross with a carved figure of Christ, in this case incised.[196]


Fig. h3: crosses in St Neot churchyard
Arthur Langdon (1896) records eight Cornish crosses and two cross bases in the parish of St Neot. Four-hole Cross is located by the main Launceston to Bodmin road close to the milestone showing eight miles to Bodmin. The shaft is ornamented on all four sides. The other crosses are three in the vicarage garden, another in the village, another in the churchyard (its shaft is ornamented on all four sides with interlaced carving; illustrated Fig. h8), and others at Hilltown and Newtown.[197] A cross at Tredinnick, found in 1958, is illustrated Fig. h9; Wenmouth Cross is illustrated Fig. h10.

Bosent Cross (illustrated Fig. h11) in the parish of St Pinnock is a fine 14th-century cross; the cross in the rectory garden came from Towednack.[198]

Andrew Langdon (1996) records three stone crosses in the parish of St Winnow. A cross found at Higher Coombe in 1903 was afterwards erected at St Nectan's chapel. A cross from Lanlivery was made into the upper section of "The Monument" on Druids Hill. It was brought from Lanlivery in 1846; this monument commemorates the loss of life in the Battle of Braddock Down in 1643. A third cross called Waterlake Cross stands in a private garden near Respryn.[199] The third cross had already been recorded by Arthur G. Langdon in 1896; at Waterlake, a hamlet near Bodmin Road station, there is a Cornish cross.[200]

A stone cross was found in the 1920s at East Waylands Farm in the parish of Talland as part of farm buildings. On 12 May 1930 it was erected at Portlooe Cross, a road junction northeast of Portlooe Farm.[201]

At Tregaminion in the parish of Tywardreath was a private chapel belonging to the Rashleighs of Menabilly. There is a Cornish cross outside the northwest angle of the chapel. Another cross is also in the chapel grounds; this was found in 1889 in use as a footbridge in Lostwithiel[202] (one cross is illustrated Fig. h12)

Andrew Langdon (1994) records five crosses in the parish of Tywardreath. These are two at Tregaminion, two at Menabilly and Trenython Cross. The crosses at Menabilly are Methrose Cross and Barrs Cross. The former was originally in the parish of Luxulyan and the latter on the boundary of the parishes of St Sampson and Lanlivery. Trenython Cross was found in 1898 by John Gott, Bishop of Truro; it was re-erected in the grounds in 1987.[203]

There is a Cornish cross (illustrated Fig. h13) in the churchyard of Warleggan; its original location is unknown but it was brought here from Carburrow.[204] In 1858 it was found on Warleggan Down between Carburrow and Treveddoe; later in the 19th century it was moved to its present position.[205]

Gallery

Fig. h4: St Meubred's church, Cardinham (note the cross on the right)

 

Fig. h5: one of the crosses in the churchyard of Cardinham

 

Fig. h5a: one of the crosses in the churchyard of Cardinham

 

Fig. h6: St Wyllow's Church, Lanteglos-by-Fowey (note the lantern cross near the porch)

 

Fig. h7: St Cleer's holy well, with its stone cross

 

Fig. h8: ancient crosses in St Neot churchyard

 

Fig. h9: a cross at Tredinnick (found in 1958)

 

Fig. h10: Wenmouth Cross

 
Fig. h11: Bosent Cross

 

Fig. h12: one of the crosses at Tregaminion Chapel

 

Fig. h13: the cross in Warleggan churchyard

Some modern crosses

The cross on the grave of Charles Bowen Cooke, St Just in Roseland

 

East Taphouse war memorial

 

The cross at the end of Higher Bore Street, Bodmin

 

Millennium Cross, Landrake


Dilsa Demirbag Sten
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Dilsa Demirbag-Sten
Born	1969
Residence	Stockholm, Sweden
Occupation	Author, journalist, director
Organization	Ber?ttarministeriet
Dilsa Demirbag-Sten is a Kurdish-Swedish author and journalist. She is the Secretary General of Ber?ttarministeriet, a foundation she co-founded together with Robert Weil and Sven Hagstr?mer in 2011.

In 2019, she became a member of the Swedish Press Council [1] and is a member of the reference group for the Swedish government agency Delegation against segregation since 2018.[2] She is also a member of the expert council to The Swedish Crown Princess Couple's Foundation.[3] Dilsa Demirbag-Sten is a former member of the Swedish Globalization Council, has been a member of the reference group for the Swedish government agency Kulturr?det. Demirbag-Sten is a former board member of the AllBright foundation[4] and is a former board member of Riksteatern, the Swedish Institute, Linn¨¦universitetet, the Swedish Red Cross, the Swedish Humanist Association and the think tank FORES.

Demirbag-Sten's has a background within journalism and has been a frequent contributor in Swedish newspapers such as Expressen, ?stg?ta Correspondenten, G?teborgs-Posten, Dagens Nyheter, Fokus and Axess. She has worked at Riksteatern, Amnesty International and as a special adviser to the former Swedish Minister for Integration Leif Blomberg. She holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science and history from Stockholm University.


Contents
1	Accolades
2	Works
2.1	As co-writer
3	Notes
Accolades
2018: she was awarded the St:Erik medal for her contributions to Stockholm county. [5]
2017: Demirbag-Sten was awarded the Astrid Lindgren scholarship for her writing.[6]
2016: Awarded "Eldsj?lsprisetl" by the Oscar Hirsch Memory foundation for her contribution to society through Ber?ttarministeriet. [7]
2012: Awarded Frihetspennan in the memory of Torgny Segerstedt for her writing. [8]
Works
Stamtavlor 2005 Norstedts[9]
Fosterland 2010 Bonniers[10]
Svenska - en n?dv?ndighet 1995 Stift. Non-Violence Sweden[11]
As co-writer
Fr?n Alfons till Dostojevskij. Co-writer. R?dda Barnen ISBN 91-89366-14-X
Makten framf?r allt. Co-writer. W&W
Violence in The Name of Honour. Co-writer. Istanbul Bilgi University Press
Tystade r?ster. Co-writer. Tranan. ISBN 978-91-85133-13-0
Handbook against Violence, Department of Justice (editorial contribution)
Till frihetens f?rsvar: En kritik av den normativa m?ngkulturalismen Norstedts (tillsammans med Per Bauhn)


Cullum baronets
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Sir Thomas Cullum, 1st Baronet. London draper, alderman and sheriff of the City of London, purchased the Hawstead and Hardwick manors in Suffolk.

Arms of Cullum: Azure, a chevron ermine between 3 pelicans vulning their breasts or
The Cullum Baronetcy, of Hastede in Suffolk, was created in the Baronetage of England on 18 June 1660 for Thomas Cullum. It became extinct on the death of the eighth Baronet, 26 January 1855. The family estate was Hardwick House, Suffolk.

Cullum baronets, of Hastede
Sir Thomas Cullum, 1st Baronet (circa 1587 ¨C 6 April 1664)
Sir Thomas Cullum, 2nd Baronet (26 December 1628 ¨C 16 October 1680)
Sir Dudley Cullum, 3rd Baronet (17 September 1657 ¨C 16 September 1720)
Sir Jasper Cullum, 4th Baronet (6 August 1674 ¨C 4 November 1754)
Sir John Cullum, 5th Baronet (7 May 1699 ¨C 16 January 1774)
Sir John Cullum, 6th Baronet (21 June 1733 ¨C 9 October 1785)
Sir Thomas Gery Cullum, 7th Baronet (30 November 1741 ¨C 8 September 1831)
Sir Thomas Gery Cullum, 8th Baronet (23 October 1777 ¨C 26 January 1855)


?emsiruhsar Hatun
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
?emsiruhsar Hatun
Died	before 1613
Istanbul, Ottoman Empire
Spouse	Murad III
Issue	Rukiye Sultan
Religion	Islam
?emsiruhsar Hatun[1][2] (Ottoman Turkish: ??? ????? ??????; died before 1613[3]) was a concubine of Sultan Murad III of the Ottoman Empire.


Contents
1	Etymology
2	Biography
3	Issue
4	References
Etymology
When she entered court service she was given a Turkish and Persian name ?emsiruhsar (Sh¨¡ms-?-R?khsar) (Ottoman Turkish: ??? ??????) which means "sun-faced" or "cheeks like sun". In Persian ?ems (Shams) means "Sun" and Ruhsar (R?khsar) means cheeks or face. Here the word "sun" (Shams) is used as an allegorist for the cheeks or face (Rukhsar).

Biography
Nothing is known of her family background. The Ottoman inscription (vakfiye) describes her as H¨¡tun binti Abd-¨¹l-Gaffar[3] (Daughter of Abd-¨¹l-Gaffar), which supports the widespread view that her father was a Pontic Greek who had "turned Turk", that is converted to Islam and joined the Turkish Millet, but gives no original name. It is also highly possible that she was a harem concubine who had converted to Islam. Abd-¨¹l-Gaffar, meaning Servant of the All-forgiving, was the anonym that was applied to many Balkan and Anatolian Christians who converted to Islam in the classical Ottoman period.[citation needed]

Although relatively obscure, the concubines of non-Haseki rank were not completely deprived of status and power and enjoyed the prerogatives of a member of the royal family, as exemplified by the fact that ?emsiruhsar Hatun, mother of a daughter, is known to have created an endowment for the recitation of the Holy Qur'an in the mosque of the Prophet in Medina.[4]

Deed of trust dated from 1022AH/1613CE gives information about ?emsiruhsar Hatun's endowment:

"...Merhum Hazret-i Murad Han tabe serahu evlad-? emcad?ndan Rukiye Sultan Hazretlarinin valide-? macideleri olub bundan akdem takdir-? rabban? birle veda-? alem-? fan? eden merhum ve mebrure sahibet¨¹'l-hayrat ve'l hasenet ve ra?ibat¨¹'s-sadaqat ve'l-meberrat ?emsiruhsar Hatun ibn Abd¨¹lgaffar nam m¨¹teveffiyenin..."[3]

Issue
Rukiye Sultan.[3] Married 21 February 1613 to Damad Nakkaas Hasan Pasha, Governor of Rumelia 1604, Vizier in 1605.[5]


Rybienko Nowe
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Rybienko Nowe
Village
Rybienko Nowe is located in PolandRybienko NoweRybienko Nowe
Coordinates: 52¡ã35¡ä16¡åN 21¡ã25¡ä28¡åECoordinates: 52¡ã35¡ä16¡åN 21¡ã25¡ä28¡åE
Country	Poland Poland
Voivodeship	Masovian
County	Wyszk¨®w
Gmina	Wyszk¨®w
Rybienko Nowe [r??bj??k? ?n?v?] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wyszk¨®w, within Wyszk¨®w County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.[1]


Struble Trail
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Struble Trail
Length	3 mi (5 km)
Location	Chester County, Pennsylvania, United States
Trailheads	Downingtown, Pennsylvania and Dorlan, Pennsylvania
Use	Hiking, Biking
Hiking details
Season	Year Round
Struble Trail is a multi-use rail trail located in Chester County, Pennsylvania.

It has 3 miles (4.8 km) currently open and 15.53 miles (24.99 km) of proposed trails. The majority of the trail is a paved surface. The trail is open to most human forms of transportation including, walking, running, biking, skateboarding, and roller skating. The Trail is closed to motor vehicles and horses. The trail is also closed between dusk and dawn.

The Struble Trail was named for the late County Commissioner (1976-1980) and longtime Executive Director of the Brandywine Valley Association, teacher and conservationist Robert G. Struble.[citation needed]

The trail head is located on Dorlan's Mill Road, just north of the Downingtown Borough on Pennsylvania Route 282.

The Struble Trail is maintained by the Chester County Parks Department. In August 2008, 23 acres (9.3 ha) of land was purchased from the Shryock Paper Mill after a highly publicized grass roots effort to preserve the property. Safe, continuous passage from the Struble Trail to the approximately 6 miles (9.7 km) of hiking trails within Marsh Creek State Park is now possible.

Along the trail there are several historical sites, fishing, and picnicking.


Franklin County Courthouse (Illinois)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

Northern and eastern sides
The Franklin County Courthouse is a government building in central Benton, the county seat of Franklin County, Illinois, United States. Built in 1874 to replace an older structure that could no longer serve the county's needs, it is the fourth building to serve as a courthouse for Franklin County.


Contents
1	Early history
2	Current courthouse
3	See also
4	References
5	External links
Early history
Franklin County was settled slowly. Few squatters occupied public lands before the land office at Shawneetown opened in 1814, and as late as 1850, half of the public land remained in federal ownership; only after the Bit Act of 1854, which cut prices by 90%, did private men purchase most of the remaining lands.[1]:351 The county was organized in 1818 from parts of Gallatin, Jackson, and White counties, with the location of the county seat to be determined by a commission of three.[1]:358 The commission chose the house of one Moses Garrett to serve as the temporary seat of government; it remained in use until a small courthouse and jail were built at Frankfort in 1826.[1]:360 However, the separation of southern Franklin County in 1839 to form Williamson County left the formerly central Frankfort far south of most of the rest of the county; the remnant residents obtained legislative consent to move the seat to a more convenient location, and the new town of Benton was platted in a field in January 1841.[2] A temporary frame courthouse was erected within a few months, but it was soon sold for relocation and conversion into a residence,[1]:365 and a new brick courthouse opened in 1845.[1]:366

Current courthouse
As the county developed, this third courthouse began to prove insufficient, and the commissioners' court planned for its replacement in 1870. Poor harvests (and thus unexpectedly low tax revenues) forced the project's postponement,[2] and only in 1874 could local contractor John J. St. Clair erect the current courthouse. He was paid $24,000 to build the new structure, into which he incorporated many bricks from the previous courthouse. A two-story building, it originally was divided into offices on the first floor and into a courtroom and jury rooms on the second. All early county records having been destroyed by an 1845 fire in the county clerk's office, St. Clair included fireproof vaults for records storage in his new design.[1]:367

Prominent architectural features of the Italianate courthouse include a hip roof supported by bracket under the eaves, large stone quoins on the corners of the brick walls, and pairs of narrow arch windows on the second floor. The original plan was functionally a square with projections at the center of each side, leaving an "L"-shaped area of open land at each corner, but these corners were filled in with plain single-story sections after 1900.[2]


Mount Carmel College, Rosewater
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Mount Carmel College
Mount carmel college logo.svg
Mount carmel college, rosewater.jpg
The entrance to Mount Carmel College in 2006.
Location
Mount Carmel College is located in South AustraliaMount Carmel CollegeMount Carmel College
Location in South Australia
33 Newcastle Street, Rosewater, Adelaide, South Australia, 5013
Australia
Coordinates	34¡ã51¡ä23¡åS 138¡ã31¡ä19¡åECoordinates: 34¡ã51¡ä23¡åS 138¡ã31¡ä19¡åE
Information
Type	Independent co-educational secondary school
Motto	Latin: Caritas et dignitas
(Love and dignity)
Religious affiliation(s)	Roman Catholic
Established	1927; 92 years ago
Principal	John Konopka[1]
Years	7-12
Colour(s)	Brown, Yellow, Blue             
Newspaper	News @ The Mount
Website	www.mcc.catholic.edu.au
Mount Carmel College is an independent Roman Catholic co-educational secondary school located in the Adelaide suburb of Rosewater, South Australia. Established in 1927 by the Marist Brothers, it was an all-boys school until December 1966. In February 1967 the Sisters of St Joseph transferred the all-girls school from the Pennington Terrace School to the present site of Mount Carmel College and in 1983 the school became a co-educational institution.


Contents
1	Principals
2	Developments
3	Cervical cancer vaccine
4	References
Principals
This is a list of all the previous principals of Mount Carmel College from 1967 to the present.

1967-1968	¡ª Sr Charlotte
1969-1971	¡ª Sr Mary Theorist
1972-1976	¡ª Sr Joan Evans
1977-1980	¡ª Sr Jude Dundon
1981-1988	¡ª Sr Joan Barry
1989-1993	¡ª Mr Peter Daw
1994-1995	¡ª Mr Tony Lowes
1996-2005	¡ª Sr Josephine Dubiel
2006¨C2010	¡ª Mrs Jane Iwanowitsch
2010¨C2016	¡ª Mr Gavin McGlaughlin
2017-current ¡ª Mr John Konopka
Developments
Recent building projects and work on the school include:

1992: Mary MacKillop Special Education Unit completed
1995: Environmental Studies building refurbished and Land acquisition program approved
1997: Physical Education Laboratory, Science Laboratory, Tutorial and Study Room built
1998: Canteen, Undercroft, Year 11 classrooms built and all transportable buildings removed
1999: Air conditioning completed
2001: Staff Car Park, Lawn and Hard play area next to Year 8 rooms established
2002: Federation Garden extended and Courts resurfaced
2006: Staff prep area extended, new transportable classrooms erected
2007: Two further transportables erected
2008: Even more transportable buildings erected - this time in the Federation Garden
2009: Palm fronds removed from trees in preparation for annual Open Night
Cervical cancer vaccine
Girls at Mount Carmel College were the first to receive the new Australian-made Cervical Cancer Vaccine on 2 April 2007. The vaccine prevents over 70% of cervical cancers. Australia's former Minister for Health and Ageing, Tony Abbott, was present to launch the vaccination programme.


Joint Task Force Gold
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

JTFGold Olympic logo
Joint Task Force (JTF) Gold[1][2] was the Australian Defence Force unit formed to provide security and general support for the 2000 Summer Olympics which was held in Sydney, Australia. JTF Gold had a strength of over 4000 personnel drawn from all three services and was commanded by Brigadier Gary Byles. The JTF consisted of several unit sized elements, each responsible for specific security or general support.


A priori estimate
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
In the theory of partial differential equations, an a priori estimate (also called an apriori estimate or a priori bound) is an estimate for the size of a solution or its derivatives of a partial differential equation. A priori is Latin for "from before" and refers to the fact that the estimate for the solution is derived before the solution is known to exist. One reason for their importance is that if one can prove an a priori estimate for solutions of a differential equation, then it is often possible to prove that solutions exist using the continuity method or a fixed point theorem.

A priori estimates were introduced and named by Sergei Natanovich Bernstein (1906, 1910), who used them to prove existence of solutions to second order nonlinear elliptic equations in the plane. Some other early influential examples of a priori estimates include the Schauder estimates given by Schauder (1934, 1937), and the estimates given by De Giorgi and Nash for second order elliptic or parabolic equations in many variables in their solution to Hilbert's nineteenth problem.


John Oestreicher
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
John Oestreicher (August 5, 1936 ¨C January 4, 2011) was an American Democratic politician and lawyer from Wisconsin.

Born in La Crosse, Wisconsin, he graduated from Aquinas High School and studied political science at University of Wisconsin¨CLa Crosse. Oestreicher served in the United States Marine Corps and received a law degree from the University of Wisconsin Law School. Moving to Marshfield, Wisconsin, he served in the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1971 to 1975. Later he served on the Wisconsin Public Service Commission and the Wisconsin hospital rates board. He moved to Madison, Wisconsin to practice law, dying in Monona, Wisconsin.[1][2]


Astoria, Queens
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Astoria, Queens" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (January 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Astoria
Neighborhood of Queens
36th Street between 30th Avenue and 31st Avenue in Astoria
36th Street between 30th Avenue and 31st Avenue in Astoria
Wikimedia | ? OpenStreetMap
Location within New York City
Coordinates: 40.767¡ãN 73.921¡ãWCoordinates: 40.767¡ãN 73.921¡ãW
Country	 United States
State	 New York
City	 New York City
County/Borough	 Queens
Community District	Queens 1[1]
European settlement	1659
Named for	John Jacob Astor
Population (2010)[2]
 ? Total	78,793
Ethnicity[3]
 ? White	49.2%
 ? Hispanic	26.5%
 ? Asian	16.2%
 ? Black	4.5%
 ? Other	3.4%
ZIP codes	
11101¨C11106
Area code(s)	718, 347, 929, and 917
Website	www.astoria.nyc
Astoria is a middle-class[4] and commercial neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens, bounded by the East River and is adjacent to three other Queens neighborhoods: Long Island City, Sunnyside (bordering at Northern Boulevard), and Woodside (bordering at 50th Street). It is located in Community Board 1, and is patrolled by the New York City Police Department's 114th Precinct.[5] As of 2016, Astoria has an estimated population of 78,793.[2]


Contents
1	History
2	Demographics
2.1	Ethnic groups
3	Geography
3.1	Ravenswood
3.2	Ditmars
3.3	Astoria Heights
4	Places of interest
5	Police and crime
6	Fire safety
7	Health
8	Post offices and ZIP codes
9	Education
9.1	Schools
9.2	Libraries
10	Transportation
11	Notable people
11.1	Born in Astoria
11.2	Raised in or moved to Astoria
11.3	Grave sites
12	In popular culture
13	References
14	External links
History
The area now known as Astoria was originally called Hallett's Cove, after its first landowner William Hallet, who settled there in 1652 with his wife, Elizabeth Fones. Beginning in the early 19th century, affluent New Yorkers constructed large residences around 12th and 14th streets, an area that later became known as Astoria Village (now Old Astoria). Hallett's Cove, incorporated on April 12, 1839[6] and previously founded by fur merchant Stephen A. Halsey, was a noted recreational destination and resort for Manhattan's wealthy.[7][8]

The area was renamed for John Jacob Astor, then the wealthiest man in America with a net worth of more than $40 million, in order to persuade him to invest in the neighborhood. He only invested $500, but the name stayed nonetheless, as a bitter battle over naming the village finally was won by Astor's supporters and friends. From Astor's summer home in Hell Gate, Manhattan¡ªon what is now East 87th Street near York Avenue¡ªhe could see across the East River the new Long Island village named in his honor. Astor, however, never actually set foot in Astoria.

During the second half of the 19th century, economic and commercial growth brought increased immigration from German settlers, mostly furniture and cabinet makers. One such settler was Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg, patriarch of the Steinway family who founded the piano company Steinway & Sons in 1853, which today is a worldwide piano company. Later on, the Steinways built a sawmill and foundry, as well as a streetcar line. The family eventually established Steinway Village for their workers, a company town that provided school instruction in German as well as English.[9] Part of the motivation for locating the Steinway factory in Queens was to keep the workers isolated from the ferment of labor organizing and radicalism occurring in other parts of New York, notably the Lower East Side.[10]


View of Astoria from the Triborough Bridge
Astoria and several other surrounding villages, including Steinway, were incorporated into Long Island City in 1870. Long Island City remained an independent municipality until it was incorporated into New York City in 1898. The area's farms were turned into housing tracts and street grids to accommodate the growing number of residents.[7]

Astoria also figured prominently in early American filmmaking as one of its initial centers. That heritage is preserved today by the Museum of the Moving Image and Kaufman Astoria Studios.

Today, much of the Astoria waterfront is being redeveloped and underutilized industrial sites in forgotten historic neighborhoods are being revived. Hallets Point is one of five former industrial sites on the waterfront being transformed, and will bring seven new mixed-use residential towers, including 2,000 market-rate units and 500 affordable units, into the neighborhood.[11] The development will also include new waterfront parks, a supermarket, retail shops and restaurants, and two new schools. These waterfront projects were designed by a New York architectural firm, in conjunction with private developers, city agencies, and landscape architects.[12][13]

Demographics

30th Avenue at 36th Street

31st Avenue at 33rd Street
Based on data from the 2010 United States Census, the population of Astoria was 78,793, a decrease of 10,329 (11.6%) from the 89,122 counted in 2000. Covering an area of 902.94 acres (365.41 ha), the neighborhood had a population density of 87.3 inhabitants per acre (55,900/sq mi; 21,600/km2).[2]

The racial makeup of the neighborhood was 49.2% (38,749) Non-Hispanic White, 4.5% (3,553) African American, 0.2% (137) Native American, 16.2% (12,759) Asian, 0.0% (30) Pacific Islander, 1.2% (936) from other races, and 2.2% (1,714) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 26.5% (20,915) of the population.[3]

The entirety of Community Board 1, which comprises Astoria and a small part of Long Island City, had 199,969 inhabitants as of NYC Health's 2018 Community Health Profile, with an average life expectancy of 83.4 years.[14]:2, 20 This is higher than the median life expectancy of 81.2 for all New York City neighborhoods.[15]:53 (PDF p. 84)[16] Most inhabitants are middle-aged adults and youth: 16% are between the ages of 0¨C17, 41% between 25¨C44, and 22% between 45¨C64. The ratio of college-aged and elderly residents was lower, at 10% and 12% respectively.[14]:2

As of 2017, the median household income in Community Board 1 was $66,382.[17] In 2018, an estimated 18% of Astoria residents lived in poverty, compared to 19% in all of Queens and 20% in all of New York City. One in twelve residents (8%) were unemployed, compared to 8% in Queens and 9% in New York City. Rent burden, or the percentage of residents who have difficulty paying their rent, is 47% in Astoria, slightly lower than the boroughwide and citywide rates of 53% and 51% respectively. Based on this calculation, as of 2018, Astoria is considered to be gentrifying.[14]:7

Ethnic groups
Astoria was first settled by the Dutch, English, and Germans in the 17th century. Many Irish settled in the area during the waves of Irish immigration into New York City during the 19th and early 20th centuries.

Italians were the next significant immigrants in Astoria, and numerous Italian restaurants, delis, bakeries, and pizza shops are found throughout Astoria, particularly in the Ditmars Boulevard area.

Jews were also a significant ethnic and religious group. The Astoria Center of Israel, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1925 after outgrowing the former Congregation Mishkan Israel, which was built in 1904.[18]

The 1960s saw a large increase of Greek population from mainland Greece, and after 1974, there was an influx of Greeks from Cyprus. This cultural imprint can be seen in the numerous Greek restaurants, bakeries, tavernas, and cafes, as well as several Greek Orthodox churches. While the population of Greeks in Astoria was 22,579 in 1980, it dropped to 18,127 by 1990 due to decreased immigration and lower birth rates. Greek organizations in the area include the Hellenic American Action Committee (HANAC) and the Federation of Hellenic Societies of Greater New York.[19] Recent economic issues in Greece have seen a resurgence of Greek immigration.[20]

About 20,000 Maltese also live in Astoria, and although this population has steadily been emigrating from the area, there are still many Maltese, supported by the Maltese Center of New York.[21]

Beginning in the mid-1970s, the neighborhood's Muslim population grew from earlier immigrants from Lebanon to also include people from Kosovo, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Tunisia, Morocco, and Algeria. In the 1990s, Steinway Street between 28th Avenue and Astoria Boulevard saw the establishment of many Arabic shops, restaurants, and cafes, which is unofficially called "Little Egypt", due to the amount of Arabs residing there and the mostly Egyptian shops and lounges there.

Croatians from Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina have been numerous since the 1960s and their numbers continue to grow. New populations of South American and Balkan peoples have seen significant growth since the early 1990s, including a large population of Brazilians, who reside in the 36th Avenue area. Albanians, Bulgarians, Serbs, and Bosnians have also shown a rise in numbers. Many Spanish Americans live in Astoria, with most of them being of Galician heritage from Northwestern Spain; this community is supported by the Casa Galicia (Galicia House) and the Circulo Espa?ol (Spanish Circle).

At one time, many Bangladeshi Americans settled in Astoria, but by 2001, many of them had moved to Metro Detroit. A survey of an Astoria-area Bengali language newspaper estimated that, in an 18-month period until March 2001, 8,000 Bangladeshi people moved to the Detroit area. However, as of 2010, the Bangladeshi American community in Astoria has been increasing.[22]

Population losses in Queens were particularly high in immigrant neighborhoods such as Astoria, which suffered the greatest population loss in the city, losing more than 10,000 residents between the years 2000 and 2010.[23]

Geography

Detail of 1896 map of Long Island City, showing Astoria and Ravenswood, from the Greater Astoria Historical Society.
There is some debate as to what constitutes the geographic boundaries of Astoria. The neighborhood was part of Long Island City prior to the latter's incorporation into the City of New York in 1898.

The area south of Astoria was called Ravenswood, and traditionally, Broadway was considered the border between the two. Today, however, many residents and businesses south of Broadway identify themselves as Astorians for convenience or status, since Long Island City has historically been considered an industrial area, and Ravenswood is now mostly a low-income neighborhood. Some of the thoroughfares have lent their names to unofficial terms for the areas they serve. For instance, the eastern end of Astoria, with Steinway Street as its main thoroughfare, is sometimes referred to simply as "Steinway", and the northern end around Ditmars Boulevard is sometimes referred to as "Ditmars", with their convergence point bearing the neighborhood name "Ditmars-Steinway".[24] Banners displayed on lamp posts along 30th Avenue refer to it as "the Heart of Astoria".[25]

Ravenswood
For uses of "Ravenswood", see Ravenswood (disambiguation).
Ravenswood is the name for the strip of land bordering the East River in Long Island City, and is part of Astoria.[26]

The land was acquired in 1814 by Col. George Gibbs, a businessman from New York City who developed it. Gibbs died in 1833, and the land was divided into nine parcels by three developers. From 1848, there were several mansions built on this land, but the high class housing did not survive. The spring of 1853 brought the opening of a post office of its own and country store "run by Messrs. Moore & Luyster, and Mr. Samuel H. Moore of that firm received the appointment of postmaster, handling the mails in a corner of the store."[27]

Ravenswood, unlike Astoria, never became a village; there was no disposition at any time to become independent as there was insufficient population or commercial activity to justify such a move. Ravenswood remained an exclusive hamlet within the Town of Newtown until its absorption with the Village of Astoria and the hamlets of Hunters Point, Blissville, Sunnyside, Dutch Kills, Steinway, Bowery Bay and Middleton in Newtown Township into Long Island City in 1870.[28] In 1870, Ravenswood, along with several other hamlets and the Village of Astoria, merged to form Long Island City.[27]

In 1875, the first commercial buildings were erected, and the mansions were converted into offices and boarding houses. In 1879, the Long Island Terra Cotta Company was established in Ravenswood, by Rudolph Franke. By 1900, Ravenswood was heavily commercial, and remains so to this day. However, the name has retained its residential character through the New York City Housing Authority project that was built in 1949 to 1951 with this name between 34th and 36th Avenues, and 12th and 24th Streets.

The name also identifies the large electric power station established along the shore of the East River, just south of the Roosevelt Island Bridge. The Ravenswood Generating Station which includes Ravenswood No. 3 Generating Station "Big Allis" was built by Con Edison in 1963-65 but, due to deregulation, has subsequently been owned by KeySpan, National Grid, and TransCanada. The power plant can generate approximately 2,500 megawatts of power, which is about 20 percent of New York City's electricity demand.[29]

Ditmars

A street in Ditmars (2012)
Ditmars is a middle class section of Astoria bounded by Bowery Bay to the north, 31st Street and the Steinway subsection to the east, 23rd Avenue to the south, and the East River to the west. The adjacent Steinway neighborhood was largely developed as a company town by the Steinway & Sons piano company, and included houses and public facilities that were also available to non-employees.[30] However, the Ditmars neighborhood was not included in the Steinway & Sons company housing and related facilities project. The neighborhood takes its name from Ditmars Boulevard which was named in honor of Raymond Lee Ditmars, (1876¨C1942) famed American herpetologist and curator of Reptiles of the New York Zoological Society at the Bronx Zoo.[31]

Astoria Heights
Astoria Heights, or Upper Ditmars, is bounded by Hazen Street to the west, La Guardia Airport to the east, Bowery Bay to the north, and Astoria Boulevard and the Grand Central Parkway to the south. It is mostly a quiet middle class neighborhood of one- and two-family private homes.

The Riker-Lent Homestead is near the north end of Astoria Heights at 78-03 19th Road. Built around 1655 by Abraham Riker under a patent from Nieuw Nederland's last governor, Peter Stuyvesant, it is believed to be the oldest remaining dwelling in New York City still used as a residence.[32] There is an adjacent family cemetery. The Smiths, who bought the house in 1975, have been restoring it for many years. The annual public tour was given usually in mid-September by the owners for the benefit of a local historical society, but has since ceased to occur.[33]

Before Prohibition, there were dance halls, picnic areas, and amusement park rides at North Beach.

Ragtime composer Scott Joplin is buried across the Grand Central Parkway at St. Michael's Cemetery, which occasionally holds ragtime concerts.

The Rikers Island Bridge to New York City's main prison, Rikers Island, runs from the north end of Hazen Street. Technically, Rikers Island is in the Bronx since New York City took it over from Long Island City in 1884, after it had annexed the South Bronx but before it consolidated Queens. However, like Astoria Heights, Rikers Island gets its mail from the East Elmhurst (Zip code 11370) station of the Flushing Post Office.

Places of interest

Museum of the Moving Image on 35th Avenue in Astoria
Museum of the Moving Image in the former Kaufman Astoria Studios building
Isamu Noguchi Museum
Socrates Sculpture Park
Astoria Park along the East River, is Astoria's largest park and also contains the largest of New York City's public pools (at 330 feet long)[34] which was also the former site of the 1936 and 1964 U.S. Olympic trials.
The Hell Gate Bridge and New York Connecting Railroad/Northeast Corridor viaduct rise high above Astoria.
The oldest beer garden in New York City, Bohemian Hall, was founded in 1910 when Astoria was largely Irish, Italian, Bohemian (Czech), and Slovak.[35]
The Greater Astoria Historical Society in the historic Quinn Memorial Building on the corner of Broadway and 36th Street serves as a valuable historical resource and provides tourist information.
St. Michael's Cemetery on Astoria Boulevard is the burial place of composer and pianist Scott Joplin.[36] and gangster Frank Costello.
Steinway & Sons piano factory located at 1 Steinway Place (not to be confused with Steinway Street) has been in operation in Astoria since the late 19th century and represents a legacy of award-winning craftsmanship, arts patronage, and the once vibrant, stand-alone Steinway Village. Limited tours of the factory are available.[37]
The Modern Art Foundry, a foundry, is located in Astoria.
In addition to Bohemian Hall, the Astoria Center of Israel, Paramount Studios Complex, Sohmer and Company Piano Factory, Steinway Mansion, and Trinity Lutheran Church are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[38][39]

Police and crime
Astoria is patrolled by the 114th Precinct of the NYPD, located at 34-16 Astoria Boulevard. The precinct also covers Sunnyside and Woodside.[40] The 114th Precinct ranked 19th safest out of 69 patrol areas for per-capita crime in 2010.[41] With a non-fatal assault rate of 56 per 100,000 people, Astoria's rate of violent crimes per capita is about the same of that of the city as a whole. The incarceration rate of 277 per 100,000 people is lower than that of the city as a whole.[14]:8

The 114th Precinct has a lower crime rate than in the 1990s, with crimes across all categories having decreased by 83.9% between 1990 and 2018. The precinct saw 10 murders, 42 rapes, 193 robberies, 356 felony assaults, 855 burglaries, 744 grand larcenies, and 132 grand larcenies auto in 2018.[42]

Fire safety

FDNY Engine Co. 312
Astoria is served by three New York City Fire Department (FDNY) fire stations:[43]

Engine Co. 263/Ladder Co. 117 ¨C 42-08 Astoria Boulevard South[44]
Engine Co. 262/Decon 2 ¨C 30-89 21st Street[45]
Engine Co. 260 ¨C 11-15 37th Avenue[46]
Battalion 49/Engine Co. 312 ¨C 22-63 35th Street[47]
Health
Preterm and teenage births are less common in Astoria than in other places citywide. In Astoria, there were 84 preterm births per 1,000 live births (compared to 87 per 1,000 citywide), and 15.1 teenage births per 1,000 live births (compared to 19.3 per 1,000 citywide).[14]:11 Astoria has a relatively average population of residents who are uninsured. In 2018, this population of uninsured residents was estimated to be 12%, which is equal to the citywide rate of 12%.[14]:14

The concentration of fine particulate matter, the deadliest type of air pollutant, in Astoria is 0.0078 milligrams per cubic metre (7.8¡Á10?9 oz/cu ft), lower than the citywide and boroughwide averages.[14]:9 Nineteen percent of Astoria residents are smokers, which is higher than the city average of 14% of residents being smokers.[14]:13 In Astoria, 19% of residents are obese, 11% are diabetic, and 29% have high blood pressure¡ªcompared to the citywide averages of 24%, 11%, and 28% respectively.[14]:16 In addition, 22% of children are obese, compared to the citywide average of 20%.[14]:12

Eighty-nine percent of residents eat some fruits and vegetables every day, which is higher than the city's average of 87%. In 2018, 79% of residents described their health as "good," "very good," or "excellent," about the same as the city's average of 78%.[14]:13 For every supermarket in Astoria, there are 10 bodegas.[14]:10

Astoria is served by the Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens.[48]

Post offices and ZIP codes
Astoria is covered by ZIP Codes 11102 north of 31st Avenue, 11106 between 31st and 37th Avenues west of 37th Street, 11101 south of 37th Avenue, and 11103 east of 37th Street.[49] The United States Post Office operates five locations nearby:

Astoria Station ¨C 30-11 21st Street[50]
Broadway Station ¨C 21-17 Broadway[51]
Grand Station ¨C 45-08 30th Avenue[52]
Steinway Station ¨C 43-04 Broadway[53]
Woolsey Station ¨C 22-68 31st Street[54]
Education
Astoria generally has a higher ratio of college-educated residents than the rest of the city. Half of residents (50%) have a college education or higher, while 16% have less than a high school education and 33% are high school graduates or have some college education. By contrast, 39% of Queens residents and 43% of city residents have a college education or higher.[14]:6 The percentage of Astoria students excelling in math rose from 43 percent in 2000 to 65 percent in 2011, and reading achievement rose from 47% to 49% during the same time period.[55]

Astoria's rate of elementary school student absenteeism is about equal to the rest of New York City. In Astoria, 19% of elementary school students missed twenty or more days per school year, less than the citywide average of 20%.[15]:24 (PDF p. 55)[14]:6 Additionally, 78% of high school students in Astoria graduate on time, more than the citywide average of 75%.[14]:6

Schools
The New York City Department of Education operates Astoria's public schools.[56]

Astoria also has several private schools, many of which offer parochial education:

Immaculate Conception School (21-63 29th Street)
Les Enfants Montessori School (29-21 Newton Avenue)
Our Lady of Mt. Carmel School (23-15 Newtown Avenue)
Queens Lutheran School (31-20 37th Street)
St. Catherine and St. George School (22-30 33rd Street)
St. Demetrios Astoria School (30-03 30th Drive)
St. Francis of Assisi School (21-18 46th Street)
St. John's Preparatory School (21-21 Crescent Street)
St. Joseph's Academy (Pre-K ¨C 8th) (28-46 44th Street)
Most Precious Blood School (Pre-K - 8th) (32-52 37th Street)
El-Ber Islamic School (25-42 49th Street)
The 30th Avenue School (28-37 29th Street)
Libraries

Astoria Boulevard branch
Queens Library operates three branches within Astoria:

The Astoria branch at 14-01 Astoria Boulevard[57]
The Broadway branch at 40-20 Broadway[58]
The Steinway branch at 21-45 31st Street[59]
Transportation

N train entering 30th Avenue station
Astoria is well-served by the New York City Subway. The N and ?W trains run along the elevated BMT Astoria Line above 31st Street. Underground subway stops include 21st Street¨CQueensbridge, served by the F train along the IND 63rd Street Line, as well as the 36th Street, Steinway Street and 46th Street stations, which are served by the local E, ?M, and ?R trains on the IND Queens Boulevard Line.[60] The nearest Long Island Rail Road station is at Woodside, on the Main Line, where there is a connection to the 7 and <7>? trains at 61st Street¨CWoodside. Astoria is also served by MTA Regional Bus Operations' Q18, Q19, Q66, Q69, Q100, Q101, Q102, Q103, Q104 and M60 SBS routes.[61]

The primary streets running north-south are Vernon Boulevard along the East River; 21st Street, a major traffic artery with a mix of residential, commercial and industrial areas; 31st Street; and Steinway Street (named for Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg (later Henry E. Steinway), founder of the piano company Steinway & Sons),[62] a major commercial street with many retail stores, and a very prominent Middle Eastern section between Astoria Boulevard and 28th Avenue, the area is full of Middle Eastern food restaurants which present some local types of food from Lebanon, Egypt and Morocco, most food in these restaurants is Halal to suit the Muslim residents who are main customers in this neighborhood.[citation needed]

Astoria has been served by NYC Ferry's Astoria route[63] since August 2017.[64][65]


A residential street in Astoria with bike lanes
Fourteen percent of roads in Astoria have bike lanes, higher than the rate in the city overall.[14]:10 Bicycle lanes, built as part of the city's bike lane system, include marked space along Vernon Boulevard, 20th Avenue, 21st Street, 34th and 36th Avenues, and access to protected paths crossing the Triborough Bridge onto Randalls and Wards Islands. Riders may also engage in more scenic biking along short sections of Shore Blvd. bordering both Astoria Park and Ralph DeMarco Park, a span that is occasionally closed to motor vehicle traffic during events.[66]

Notable people
Born in Astoria
Ted Alexandro (born 1969), comedian[67]
Iris Apfel (born 1921), businesswoman and style icon[68]
Tony Bennett (born 1926), Grammy-winning singer[69][70][71]
Eddie Bracken (1915¨C2002), actor[72]
Hillary Brooke (born Beatrice Peterson, 1914¨C1999), actress and Lou Costello's love interest on The Abbott and Costello Show[73]
The Cadillac Man, author, Land of the Lost Souls: My Life on the Streets[74][75]
Maria Callas (1923¨C1977), opera singer (early childhood)[76]
Robert Davi (born 1953), actor, appeared in The Goonies, Die Hard, and Licence to Kill[77]
John Frusciante (born 1970), guitarist for Red Hot Chili Peppers[citation needed]
Ed Gardner (1901¨C1963), actor, best known for his work on Duffy's Tavern[78]
Anthony Giacchino (born 1969), filmmaker and producer[79]
George Gibbs (1815¨C1873), geologist who contributed to the study of the languages of the indigenous peoples of Washington Territory[80]
Jack Kelly (1927¨C1992), actor, mayor of Huntington Beach, California[81]
Cyndi Lauper (born 1953), singer, songwriter, actress, LGBT activist
Melanie Martinez (born 1995), singer-songwriter, appeared on The Voice (2012)[82]
Patrick McGoohan (1928¨C2009), actor[83]
Chris Megaloudis, soccer player for the Puerto Rico national football team
Ethel Merman (1908¨C1984), Broadway actress and singer[69]
Eric Metaxas (born 1963), author, founder of "Socrates in the City"[84]
Marilyn Milian (born 1961), judge on television series The People's Court
Dito Montiel (born 1965), author, screenwriter, director and musician
Nicole and Natalie Albino, of the musical duo Nina Sky
Al Oerter (1936¨C2007), Olympic discus throw four-time gold medalist[85]
Melanie Safka (born 1947), singer-songwriter[86]
Joe Santagato (born 1992), Youtuber and entertainer[87]
Franz Schurmann (1926¨C2010), Cold War-era expert on the People's Republic of China[88]
Dee Snider (born 1955) singer of rock band Twisted Sister
Christopher Walken (born 1943), actor
Gordon Willis (born 1931), Academy Award-winning-cinematographer
Raised in or moved to Astoria
Alvey A. Adee (1842¨C1924), acting U.S. Secretary of State[89]
Lidia Bastianich, (born 1947) celebrity chef, TV host, cookbook author and restaurateur[90]
Panayiota Bertzikis, serial social entrepreneur (grew up in Astoria)
Frank Bonsangue, actor and television personality[91]
Chester Carlson (1906¨C1968), inventor of xerography and co-founder of Xerox[92]
Kambri Crews, author and storyteller[93][94][95]
Jesse Eisenberg (born 1983), actor
Christian Finnegan, comedian and actor[94][96][97]
Whitey Ford (born 1928), New York Yankees pitcher[98]
Chamique Holdsclaw (born 1977), basketball player
George Maharis (born 1928), actor and singer, best known for his work on Route 66[99]
John H. Meier (born 1933), financier and former business associate of Howard Hughes, also involved with Watergate[100]
Nicole Petallides (born 1971), Fox Business reporter[101]
Henrietta Rodman (1877¨C1923), feminist and educator[102]
Stelio Savante (born 1970), actor
Grave sites
Additionally, Astoria is the final resting place of New York City mobster Frank Costello as well as ragtime composer and musician Scott Joplin. Both Costello and Joplin are interred at St. Michael's Cemetery. The cemetery hosts annual public events and concerts to celebrate Joplin's musical legacy, including a Joplin retrospective.[103]

In popular culture

Night view of the Hell Gate Bridge from Astoria Park.
The neighborhood has often been featured in various media; in film and television, the area is either featured as Astoria or as a setting for another location in New York City.

Film

In the film Joe (1970), Peter Boyle's character lives in Astoria.
The 1973 film adaptation of the John-Michael Tebelak stage musical Godspell includes multiple images of characters beneath the supports for The Hell Gate Bridge, or East River Arch Bridge, as seen from Randall's Island, both while the plot unfolds as well as during visual montages that take place in such numbers as Day by Day and We Beseech Thee. The view of the bridge is similar to those found in Astoria Park and Astoria can occasionally be viewed in the background of shots facing east.
Serpico (1973), with Al Pacino, had several scenes filmed in Astoria. For example, the elevated train stop at Ditmars Boulevard was the location for a chase scene, and Serpico has a clandestine meeting in Astoria Park under the Hellgate Bridge.
King Kong (1976) had a scene in Astoria, at Astoria Boulevard and 31st Street, where the two main characters board the RR train at the Astoria Boulevard station on the BMT Astoria Line.
The 1982 film version of Tempest, starring John Cassavetes, had scenes shot at the cafes on 23rd Ave off 31st St.
Five Corners (1987), starring Jodie Foster, was shot in Astoria.[104]
The Martin Scorsese film GoodFellas (1990) was filmed on location in Astoria.
The movie Queens Logic (1991) was filmed all around Astoria and features an Astoria landmark¡ªthe Hell Gate Bridge. One of the screenwriters, Tony Spiridakis, has roots in Astoria.
The Robert De Niro film A Bronx Tale (1993) was set in the Bronx, but most of the exterior scenes were filmed in Astoria as well as the nearby neighborhood of Woodside. The high school featured in the film is William Cullen Bryant High School on 31st Avenue, the church used in the film is St. Joseph's on 30th Avenue, and the funeral parlor scenes were shot from a funeral home on 30th Ave, across the street from St. Joseph's Church.
The independent film Girls Town (1996) shows scenes shot in Astoria Park.
Woody Allen's film Hollywood Ending (2002) had scenes shot in the neighborhood surrounding the Kaufman Astoria stages.
A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints (2006), starring Robert Downey, Jr. and Shia LaBeouf, and adapted from Dito Montiel's 2001 memoir about the filmmaker's experiences growing up in the neighborhood during the 1980s, was filmed at various locations around Astoria.
The Accidental Husband (2008), Directed by Griffin Dunne; with Uma Thurman, Colin Firth and Jeffrey Dean Morgan was filmed in Astoria on 33rd Street and 23rd Avenue.
The remake of the comedy film Arthur (2011) depicts at least one scene showing Astoria, Queens, using a Batmobile visual shown from 34th Street and 34th Avenue in the neighborhood.
Gaming

The video game Grand Theft Auto IV¡ªwhich takes place in a mock New York City named Liberty City¡ªhas a neighborhood named Steinway in the borough of Dukes, the counterpart of Queens in the game. The game features a Bohemian Hall-inspired "Steinway Beer Garden", but as an Irish-and-German themed bar instead of Czech. (A mock TV commercial for the Steinway Beer Garden, viewable at the Rockstar website, includes the voice-over remarking that the Garden is "ethnically confused.")[105] Steinway Park is modeled after Astoria Park, with its famous outdoor pool (including the diving platforms) and scenic water's-edge pathway. Numerous signs and awnings of real local Astoria businesses appear in the game, although the names have been altered (e.g. "ASTORIA Medical Dental" becomes "ROSARIA Medical Dental").
The video game The Godfather II depicts Astoria in its version of New York City.
Literature

In F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel The Great Gatsby (1925), Jay Gatsby is pulled over by a policeman on a "motor cycle" in Astoria while driving with the narrator into the city.
Astoria is the setting for Dito Montiel's memoir, A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints (2001), later made into a 2006 film.
Astoria is the setting for the novel Autobiography/Masquerade (2006), written to honor the memory of Antonio "Nino" Pellegrino, an Astoria native who appeared briefly in A Bronx Tale.
In Ayn Rand's novel The Fountainhead (1943), lead character Howard Roark destroys the Cortlandt Homes housing project which is located on the East River in Astoria.[106]
Music'

Sufjan Stevens recorded a majority of Illinoise at The Buddy Project Recording Studio in Astoria.
Rapper Action Bronson filmed his music video "Strictly 4 My Jeeps" in Astoria. The video was released on May 20, 2013 as the single for his album Saaab Stories.
Queens Metal band Emmure released a track on their 3rd studio album Felony titled "Bars in Astoria". It was featured on the Ibanez website in their interview with members of the band in promotion of their product.
The music video for the song "Your Love" (1985) by the British band The Outfield was set in a sound stage/painting studio in the rear of what is currently Strand Pharmacy at 25-01 Broadway. At the end of the video, the female "painter" walks out of the sound stage onto Crescent St. and then makes a left onto Broadway.
Television

The 1970s situation comedy All in the Family was set in Astoria, although the address given for Archie Bunker's home (704 Hauser Street) is fictional, and the exterior of the house shown in the opening credits was shot elsewhere in Queens.
The television series Cosby, starring Bill Cosby, Phylicia Rashad and Madeleine Kahn (not to be confused with the earlier series The Cosby Show) was set in Astoria and was filmed there, at the Kaufman Astoria Studios on 35th Avenue.[107]
The Showtime original series Nurse Jackie is shot at Kaufman Astoria Studios as well as on location in Astoria.
The Netflix original series Orange Is the New Black is shot at Kaufman Astoria Studios as well as on location in Astoria.
The block of 37th Street between Ditmars Boulevard and 23rd Avenue is sometimes referred to as "the Seinfeld Street." In the Seinfeld television show, this street is occasionally seen in external establishing shots as the block where George Costanza's parents live.[108]
Kaufman Astoria Studios has further been longtime host to the PBS series Sesame Street and has been credited with local shoots on films like The Stepford Wives, the 2009 remake of The Taking of Pelham 123, and the Golden Globe-winning Angels in America.
The character Abbi Abrams from Broad City lives in Astoria.[109]


Hussein el-Shafei
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.
Find sources: "Hussein el-Shafei" ¨C news ¡¤ newspapers ¡¤ books ¡¤ scholar ¡¤ JSTOR (January 2019) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Hussein el-Shafei
Hussein Al Shafei.JPG
Vice-President of Egypt
In office
20 March 1968 ¨C 16 April 1975
President	Gamal Abdel Nasser
Anwar Sadat
Preceded by	Ali Sabri
Succeeded by	Hosni Mubarak
In office
16 August 1961 ¨C 30 September 1965
President	Gamal Abdel Nasser
Preceded by	Nur al-Din Kahala
Succeeded by	Ali Sabri
Minister of Defense
In office
17 April 1954 ¨C 31 August 1954
President	Gamal Abdel Nasser
Preceded by	Abdel Latif Boghdadi
Succeeded by	Abdel Hakim Amer
Personal details
Born	8 February 1918
Tanta, Egypt
Died	18 November 2005 (aged 87)
Cairo, Egypt
Military service
Allegiance	 Kingdom of Egypt
 Egypt
Branch/service	Egyptian Army
Rank	EgyptianArmyInsignia-Colonel.svg Colonel
Hussein Mahmoud Hassan el-Shafei, (Egyptian Arabic: ???? ????? ??? ????????), also known as Hussein el-Shafei (8 February 1918 ¨C 18 November 2005), was a member of Egypt's 1952 revolutionary leadership council and served as Vice-president under two Egyptian presidents, Gamal Abdel Nasser and Anwar Sadat. He was one of the nine men who had constituted themselves as the committee of the Free Officers Movement, led the country's cavalry corps during the uprising and was one of only three living members of the Revolutionary Command Council at the time of his death.


Contents
1	Early life and education
2	Career
3	Death
4	Honour
4.1	Foreign honour
5	See also
6	References
Early life and education
Born in Tanta in 1918, el-Shafei graduated from the Egyptian Military Academy in 1938.[1]

Career

El-Shafei (first from right) with President Gamal Abdel Nasser (first from left), Vice President Anwar Sadat (second from left) and Ali Sabri (third from left) in Alexandria, 1968
El-Shafei was appointed minister of war in 1954 and served as Egypt's minister of labor and social affairs during Egypt's merger with Syria. He served as vice-president under Gamal Abdel Nasser in 1961.

During his tenure as minister of social affairs, el-Shafei introduced social insurance reforms considered radical at the time, including pensions to widows. His Winter Charity campaign provided Egypt's poor with basic necessities. Some Egyptian celebrities took part in the "mercy trains" which delivered the goods, including actress Faten Hamama.

Anwar Sadat appointed el-Shafei as vice-president of Egypt's new government in 1971 and he was succeeded by Hosni Mubarak in April 1975.

Death
El-Shafei died on 18 November 2005. Mubarak was among the senior officials at el-Shafei's state funeral.[1]

Honour
Foreign honour
 Malaysia : Honorary Grand Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (1965)[2]


Server-sent events
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Server-sent events (SSE) is a technology enabling a browser to receive automatic updates from a server via HTTP connection. The Server-Sent Events EventSource API is standardized as part of HTML5[1] by the W3C.


Contents
1	History
2	Overview
2.1	Web browsers
3	Libraries
3.1	.Net
3.2	ASP.NET
3.3	C
3.4	Erlang
3.5	Go
3.6	Java
3.7	Node.js
3.8	Objective C
3.9	Perl
3.10	PHP
3.11	Python
3.12	Scala
3.13	Swift
4	See also
5	References
6	External links
History
The WHATWG Web Applications 1.0 proposal[2] included a mechanism to push content to the client. On September 1, 2006, the Opera web browser implemented this new experimental technology in a feature called "Server-Sent Events".[3][4]

Overview
Server-sent events is a standard describing how servers can initiate data transmission towards clients once an initial client connection has been established. They are commonly used to send message updates or continuous data streams to a browser client and designed to enhance native, cross-browser streaming through a JavaScript API called EventSource, through which a client requests a particular URL in order to receive an event stream.

Web browsers
Web browser support for Server-Sent Events
Browser	Supported	Notes
Internet Explorer	No	[5]
Mozilla Firefox	Yes	Starting with Firefox 6.0 [5]
Google Chrome	Yes	Starting with Chrome 6 [5]
Opera	Yes	Starting with Opera 11 [5]
Safari	Yes	Starting with Safari 5.0 [5]
Microsoft Edge	No	Under consideration [5]
Libraries
.Net
Service Stack EventSource library for .Net, with both server and client implementations.
ASP.NET
SignalR - Transparent implementation for ASP.NET.
C
HaSSEs Asynchronous server side SSE daemon written in C (It uses one thread for all connected clients).
Erlang
Lasse EventSource server handler for Erlang's cowboy
Shotgun EventSource client in Erlang
Go
eventsource EventSource library for Go.
Java
jEaSSE - Server-side asynchronous implementation for Java servlets and Vert.x
Akka HTTP has SSE support since version 10.0.8
alpakka Event Source Connector EventSource library for alpakka which supports reconnection
Spring WebFlux Server and client side java implementation built on reactive streams and non-blocking servers
Jersey has a full implementation of JAX-RS support for Server Sent Events as defined in JSR-370
Micronaut HTTP server supports emitting Server Sent Events
Node.js
sse-stream - Node.js/Browserify Server-Sent Events implementation (client and server).
total.js - web application framework for node.js - Server-Sent Events example + supports WebSockets (RFC 6455)
eventsource-node - EventSource client for Node.js
Objective C
TRVSEventSource - Server-sent events EventSource implementation in Objective-C for iOS and OS X using NSURLSession.
Perl
Mojolicious - Perl real-time web framework.
PHP
Hoa\Eventsource - PHP Server-Sent Events implementation.
Python
Python SSE Client - EventSource client library for Python using Requests library.
Server Side Events (SSE) client for Python - EventSource client library for Python using Requests or urllib3 library.
django-eventstream - Server-Sent Events for Django.
flask-sse - A simple Flask extension for HTML5 server-sent events support, powered by Redis.
sse - Server Sent Events protocol implementation on python2 and python3 in the same codebase.
event-source-library - Server Sent Events protocol implementation in python2 with Tornado. Client and server implementations.
Scala
Akka HTTP has SSE support since version 10.0.8
alpakka Event Source Connector EventSource library for alpakka which supports reconnection
Swift
EventSource - Server-sent events EventSource implementation in Swift using NSURLSession


Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel
Botany Sir Joseph Banks Park Hotel.JPG
Location	23 Anniversary Street, Botany, Bayside Council, New South Wales, Australia
Coordinates	33¡ã57¡ä19¡åS 151¡ã12¡ä10¡åECoordinates: 33¡ã57¡ä19¡åS 151¡ã12¡ä10¡åE
Built	1840¨C1874
Owner	former Sir Joseph Banks Hotel
New South Wales Heritage Register
Official name: Sir Joseph Banks Hotel (former); Sir Joseph Banks Hotel; Banks Inn
Type	state heritage (complex / group)
Designated	2 April 1999
Reference no.	76
Type	Hotel
Category	Commercial
Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel is located in SydneyOld Sir Joseph Banks Hotel
Location of Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel in Sydney
The Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel is a heritage-listed former hotel at 23 Anniversary Street, Botany, Bayside Council, New South Wales, Australia. It was built from 1840 to 1874. It was also known as Banks Inn. It was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.[1]


Contents
1	History
2	Description
3	Heritage listing
4	See also
5	References
5.1	Bibliography
5.2	Attribution
6	External links
History
The Old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel is a large former bayside hotel of considerable historical and architectural worth, which remains virtually intact from early Victorian times. The building was begun by Thomas Kellet and J. Drew in 1840, and it (then known as the Banks Inn) had by the 1850s developed gardens, a private zoo and provision for outdoor sports. It became a popular weekend and holiday pleasure ground.[1]

About 1860, a further single storey wing to the east was added. The main two-storey north wing was added c. 1870 in Italianate style.[1]

It was bought in 1884 by entrepreneur Frank Smith, who set up famous running races from 1884-92, and later passed into hands of breweries.[1]

In 1920, a new hotel was built on Botany Road - the modern Sir Joseph Banks Hotel - and both the old hotel's name and license were transferred to the new hotel. It remained vacant until being sold to James Ruttley in 1930, and remained in the family as a residence for many years.[2]

The hotel was again sold, restored and converted into apartments c. 2000. A new apartment block was built next to the former hotel at that time.[2][3]

Description
The former hotel consists of a large complex of stuccoed brick. The first part was begun in 1840, being a two-storey Georgian building, with flanking single-storey wings, named the Banks Inn. About 1860, a further single storey wing to the east was added with curved facade and verandah and steeply pitched hipped roofs. The main two-storey north wing was added c. 1870 in Italianate style, heavily ornamented with slab. It featured parapets and two storey cast iron verandahs and an interior of carved cedar.[1]

Heritage listing
The old Sir Joseph Banks Hotel is a large former bay side hotel of considerable historical and architectural worth, which remains virtually intact from early Victorian times.[1]

Sir Joseph Banks Hotel was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999.[1]


Idigh
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Idigh
Village
Idigh is located in AlgeriaIdighIdigh
Coordinates: 29¡ã53¡ä37¡åN 1¡ã51¡ä18¡åWCoordinates: 29¡ã53¡ä37¡åN 1¡ã51¡ä18¡åW
Country	 Algeria
Province	B¨¦char Province
District	B¨¦ni Abb¨¨s District
Commune	Tamtert[1]
Elevation	438 m (1,437 ft)
Time zone	UTC+1 (CET)
Idigh (also written Idirh) is a village in the commune of Tamtert,[1] in B¨¦ni Abb¨¨s District, B¨¦char Province, Algeria. The village is located on a local road on the north-eastern bank of the Oued Saoura, about halfway between Tamtert and El Ouata.[2]


Rif Dimashq offensive (September¨CNovember 2013)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Rif Dimashq offensive (September¨CNovember 2013)
Part of the Syrian Civil War (Rif Dimashq Governorate campaign)
Rif Dimashq offensive (September 2013).svg
Frontlines in Rif Dimashq in late February 2014
     Syrian Government control
     Opposition control
     Contested
For a war map of the current situation in Rif Dimashq, see here.
Date	10 September ¨C 28 November 2013
(2 months, 2 weeks and 4 days)
Location	
Rif Dimashq, Syria
Result	
Syrian Army victory

Government forces capture seven towns south and southeast of Damascus
Rebels launch an offensive in an attempt to break the Siege of eastern Ghouta[7]
Government forces launch an assault on al-Malihah and Jobar four months later
Belligerents
 Free Syrian Army

Damascus Military Council
 Islamic Front (from 22 November)

Jaysh al-Islam
 Ahrar ash-Sham[1]
 Al-Nusra Front[2]	
 Syrian Arab Republic

 Syrian Armed Forces
 Hezbollah[3]
 Liwa Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas[4]
 LAAG[5]
 Arab Nationalist Guard[6]
Commanders and leaders
 Khaled al-Haboush
(Damascus Military Council commander)
 Abu Mohammad al-Julani
(al-Nusra Front commander)	
Syria Bashar Al-Assad
 Issam Zahreddine[8]
(Republican Guard Brigade 104 commander)
 Wissam Sharafeddine  ?
(Hezbollah commander)
Units involved
Unknown	
 Syrian Army

3rd Armoured Division
4th Armoured Division
10th Mechanised Division
11th Armoured Division
Syrian Republican Guard Symbol.svg Republican Guard
 National Defense Force
Strength
4,500 fighters[9]

750¨C1,000 al-Nusra fighters[10]
70,000 soldiers,[11] 500 tanks
Casualties and losses
1,000 rebels killed (Army claim)[12][13]	115+ soldiers killed[12]
vte
Syrian Civil War
vte
Rif Dimashq Campaign
(Syrian Civil War)
The Rif Dimashq offensive (September¨CNovember 2013) was a Syrian government forces and allies offensive in the Rif Dimashq Governorate, that was launched in mid-September 2013, as part of the Syrian Civil War.


Contents
1	Background
2	The offensive
2.1	Airport road and Sayyidah Zaynab secured
2.2	Western Ghouta Army advances
2.3	Eastern Ghouta rebel counter-attack
3	Aftermath ¨C Adra massacre and Al-Otaiba ambush
4	References
Background
Threatened by a Western intervention after the 2013 Ghouta attacks, the Syrian Army had repositioned in early-September. Once the threat had passed, the Army launched the new offensive against rebel positions, primarily in the southern suburbs of Damascus.

The offensive
Airport road and Sayyidah Zaynab secured
On 10 September, the military and pro-government militiamen made a push into Barzeh in an attempt to capture the district as three air raids were conducted against the suburb. Government forces also attacked the eastern suburb of Deir Salman, near Damascus airport.[14]

On 14 September, Colombian journalist William Parra was shot in the leg by a rebel sniper in Harasta while covering for TeleSUR.[15]

On 19 September, the Syrian Army retook control of the strategic town of Shaba'a, near the capital, after heavy fighting. The Army also secured the road to Damascus international airport and regained control of strategic roads leading to the holy Sayyidah Zaynab mausoleum.[16][17]

Western Ghouta Army advances
On 9 October, Hezbollah and Iraqi Shiite fighters, backed up by artillery, air-strikes and tanks, attacked and captured the town of Sheikh Omar, on the southern outskirts of Damascus.[18] On 11 October, Army troops and pro-government Shia fighters captured the two southern suburbs of al-Thiabiya and Husseiniya near Damascus, killing at least 70 people.[19] The capture of the three towns, located between the two main highways leading to Jordan, strengthened the government hold on major supply lines and put more pressure on rebels under siege in the Eastern Ghouta area.[20]

On 16 October, the Army, with the help of Hezbollah and Iraqi Shiite militants from the Abul Fadl al-Abbas brigade, captured the strategic town of Bweida, south of Damascus.[21]

On 23 October, the Army sealed any remaining smuggling routes into Eastern Ghouta and intensified its blockade over the region.[22] At this point, there were indications that the military was preparing to start a new phase of its offensive, which will target the Western Ghouta area, south of Damascus.[23]

On 24 October, the military captured the town of Hatetat al-Turkman, which is located southeast of Damascus, along the Damascus International Airport road.[24] Only hours later, some 40 al-Nusra and Liwa al-Islam rebels were killed in an ambush by the Syrian Army near the town of Otaybah, northeast of the International Airport.[25][26]

On 30 October, an operation conducted by the Syrian Red Crescent, in coordination with the Syrian authorities and the rebels, was allowed to evacuate 800 civilians from Mouadamiyat al-Sham, a rebel town besieged by the Army. A few days earlier, another operation allowed 3,000 civilians to leave.[27]

On 1 November, the Syrian Army, backed by Hezbollah fighters, attacked and advanced in Al-Sabinah.[28] The next day, the military shelled Al-Sabinah while the Army advanced in Barzeh.[29]

On 7 November, the Army, backed by Hezbollah, the Al-Abbas brigade and the National Defense Force, retook the key town of Al-Sabinah, south of Damascus. According to an opposition activist, military "progress on the ground without a doubt, because the regions were besieged for too long. This is normal." Opposition activist director Abdel Rahman also blamed "divisions within the rebels."[30]

On 10 November, government forces launched an attack against Hejeira and A'qraba.[31] By the afternoon, the Army and its allies advanced in Hejeira al-Balad[32] while the military launched an attack against rebel positions in Hajar al-Aswad.[33][34]

On 11 November, the Army made gains in Barzeh capturing large parts of the neighborhood. Army units also destroyed a tunnel which ran under the neighborhood.[35][36]

On 12 November, it was reported by Palestinian officials that a truce had been reached to end fighting in the Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp, however, clashes were still being reported. It was confirmed that PLO representatives were in Damascus to hold talks with government officials. The aim was to reach an agreement under which both the Army and rebel forces would withdraw from the camp, after which, the Syrian police would take over security in the camp, while Army checkpoints would be set up on its outskirts. Recently, government forces managed to advance a few hundred meters into the camp, but rebels were still holed up inside it. The rebel's position had become increasingly difficult in previous weeks due to the Army's advances which threatened to cut rebel supply lines.[37]

On 13 November, government forces captured most of Hejeira, with some pockets of resistance still remaining.[38] Rebels retreated from Hejeira to Hajar al-Aswad, losing their urban cover. However, their defenses in besieged districts closer to the heart of Damascus were still reportedly solid.[39]

On 15 November, government forces captured most of Babila and Yalda, to the east of Hajar al-Aswad.[40] However, state news agency SANA reported continued fighting in Yalda on 19 November,[41] and pro-Assad Iranian news agency PressTV reported "heavy clashes" in the district on 21 November, claiming "dozens" of rebels were killed or wounded by government forces.[42]

By 16 November, more than 70 percent of Harasta was under the control of the Army.[43][44] The next day, according to the opposition activist group the SOHR, three generals and a brigadier-general were among 31 troops killed in a bomb attack that caused a building in the Army transport base in Harasta to collapse.[45][46] Two days later, the number of soldiers killed in the bomb blast had risen to 68.[47]

On 22 November, government forces captured the town of Hatita in the Damascus countryside.[48]

Eastern Ghouta rebel counter-attack
On 22 November,[7] rebel forces made an attempt to break the blockade of Eastern Ghouta by attacking the town of Otaiba[49] and a string of military checkpoints encircling the opposition-held Damascus suburbs.[7] Fighting over three days killed 194 combatants. Among the dead were 115 rebels,[50] including seven battalion commanders,[51] and 79 government fighters. 50 of the dead rebels were jihadists, while 20 of the dead pro-government fighters were members of a Shiite Iraqi group and five were Hezbollah militiamen. Seven opposition media activists were killed as well while covering the fighting.[50]

By 25 November, the rebels managed to capture several small villages and checkpoints, but the blockade was still in place. According to a military source, the rebels captured seven villages, but the Army recaptured three of them, with the opposition forces still attempting to capture Otaiba. Fighting was also continuing around the rebel-held town of Marj al-Sultan.[50] A Hezbollah source also confirmed that the rebels captured several villages and Hezbollah positions after their units came under a human wave attack by hundreds of rebel fighters. Following the rebel advance, Hezbollah special forces from Beirut were mobilized and sent to the battle.[52] The SOHR confirmed Hezbollah had sent "hundreds of fighters" to reinforce the Army in its bid to repulse the rebel assault.[53]

On 26 November, the Army hit Marj al-Sultan with five surface-to-surface missiles.[54]

On 27 November, the situation in Eastern Ghouta remained unclear. Several pro-opposition websites claimed rebel advances in the area. However, opposition media activists on the ground in Eastern Ghouta denied the claims and stated that opposition forces were still besieged. Meanwhile, 17 rebel fighters were killed in fighting in the town of Moadamiyeh in Western Ghouta.[55]

On 28 November, another 11 rebels[56] and three Hezbollah fighters were killed in the Marj area.[57]

Between 25 and 28 November, more than 135 rebel fighters and more than 85 government soldiers and militiamen were killed in the offensive, among them five members of the pro-government Iraqi group who were captured and then beheaded by jihadist fighters. The Hezbollah death toll in the clashes had reached 16 since 22 November, according to SOHR, with the overall toll for both sides at this point being around 410.[58][59][60][61] However, according to a Hezbollah commander in Beirut, 21¨C40 Hezbollah fighters had been killed in the fighting by 25 November,[52] while Lebanese security sources said 25 Hezbollah militiamen died in the previous week,[62] including four who were killed during the Army offensive in the Qalamoun mountains.[63] The most prominent Hezbollah commander in the Damascus countryside, Wissam Sharafeddine, was also killed.[64]

According to Lebanese media, 1,000 rebels were killed during the opposition offensive in Eastern Ghouta, including top military commanders.[13][65][66]

Aftermath ¨C Adra massacre and Al-Otaiba ambush
See also: Adra massacre and Al-Otaiba ambush
On 11 December, the rebel Islamic Front and Al-Nusra Front groups[67] infiltrated the industrial area of the town of Adra, northeast of Damascus, attacking buildings housing workers and their families. The rebels targeted Alawites, Druse, Christians and Shiites, killing them on a sectarian basis. Some people were shot while others were beheaded.[68] The killings lasted into the next day.[67] In all some 19[68]¨C40[67] minority civilians were massacred, as the rebels captured the industrial part of Adra.[69] 18 pro-government militiamen were also killed,[70] including five PLA members.[71] Several rebels died when a Shiite man blew himself up along with them and his family after the rebels attempted to kill them.[68]

On 13 December, the military surrounded Adra[68] and started an operation to push out rebel fighters from the area,[70] making advances in the town during the day.[68] As of the next day, the operation was still continuing.[72]

By 15 December, the number of minority civilians confirmed killed in the rebel attack on Adra had risen to 32. Dozens of others were missing.[73]

On 26 February 2014, some 152¨C175+ rebels were killed in a single ambush near Otaiba. At least seven others were captured.[74][75]


Microsoft Interactive Media Manager
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article needs additional citations for verification. (October 2010)
The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. (October 2010)

The MOSS 2007 based media player console in IMM
Microsoft Interactive Media Manager (IMM) was a collaborative media management system that leveraged Microsoft Office SharePoint Server 2007 for a web-based workflow, including both in-browser management and playback UI. It also included a RDF and OWL based metadata framework to set up relationships between media assets and facilitate tracking and complex searches. It was discontinued in 2009.[1]


David Barstow
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
David Barstow
David Barstow May 2004 2.jpg
Born	January 21, 1963 (age 56)
Boston, Massachusetts, United States
Nationality	American
Occupation	Journalist
Employer	New York Times
Awards	
Gerald Loeb Award
Pulitzer Prize
David Barstow (born January 21, 1963) is an American journalist. He has won four Pulitzer Prizes, all connected to his work with The New York Times. A three-time finalist for a Pulitzer prize during his tenure at The Tampa Bay Times, his work was cited as central to a 2004 Pulitzer later won by The New York Times.


Contents
1	Life and work
2	Hidden Hand story
3	Bibliography
4	References
5	External links
Life and work
Born in Boston, he received a bachelor's degree from Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism in 1986. Barstow has worked for The New York Times since 1999, and has been an investigative reporter there since 2002.

He worked for The St. Petersburg Times in Florida, where he was a finalist for three Reporting Pulitzers: spot news reporting in 1997, investigative reporting in 1998; and explanatory journalism in 1998 (now called explanatory reporting).[1]

The New York Times won the 2004 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, citing "the work of David Barstow and Lowell Bergman that relentlessly examined death and injury among American workers and exposed employers who break basic safety rules."[2]

In 2009, Barstow won the Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting for work with the Times, citing "his tenacious reporting that revealed how some retired generals, working as radio and television analysts, had been co-opted by the Pentagon to make its case for the war in Iraq, and how many of them also had undisclosed ties to companies that benefited from policies they defended."[3]

One of three stories submitted for the Investigative Reporting Pulitzer was "Message Machine: Behind TV Analysts, Pentagon's Hidden Hand" (April 20, 2008).[3] Barstow reported that the Department of Defense recruited over 75 retired military officers, some with undisclosed ties to defense contractors, to appear on major news outlets as military analysts commenting on the Iraq war and the case in its favor.[4] He wrote, "Records and interviews show how the Bush administration has used its control over access and information in an effort to transform the analysts into a kind of media Trojan horse¡ªan instrument intended to shape terrorism coverage from inside the major TV and radio networks." Although the Pentagon initially issued a statement exonerating the program, the Pentagon inspector general's office later said it was flawed, and the statement was withdrawn.[5]

Barstow and Alejandra Xanic von Bertrab shared the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting and the Gerald Loeb Award for Investigative business journalism for exposing how Wal-Mart used bribery to dominate the market in Mexico.[6][7]

For his reporting at The New York Times showing how the future President Donald Trump and his family avoided paying roughly half a billion dollars in taxes,[8] Barstow shared the 2019 Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting with Susanne Craig and Russ Buettner.[9]

Hidden Hand story
Most American television networks (ABC, CBS, NBC, MSNBC, CNN and Fox: incidentally, these are the ones that were criticized in the report) have failed to either mention Barstow's name in their news reports, or talk about his investigations that suggest the officers whose views they aired were biased.[10] Nevertheless, after Barstow won the Pulitzer, he opined that his story had prompted some improvements in the networks' practices.[11]

Bibliography
Barstow, David; Craig, Suzanne; Buettner, Russ (October 2, 2018). "Trump Engaged in Suspect Tax Schemes as He Reaped Riches From His Father". The New York Times. Retrieved 2018-10-02.


Awamir
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Awamir
???????
Arab tribe
Ethnicity	Arab
Location	United Arab Emirates
Oman
Population	10,000
Branches	Afar
Language	Arabic
Religion	Islam
The Awamir (Arabic: ????????) (singular Al Amiri Arabic: ????????) is a Bedouin Arab tribe in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman.[1] Warlike, fiercely independent and frequently murderous, they were camel breeders, raiders and occasionally date farmers before settling in the 1960s.


Contents
1	History
2	Bani Yas affiliation
3	Raiding
4	Settlement
5	References
History
The Awamir roamed across the whole Oman peninsula, from Muscat and Nizwa to Abu Dhabi and Liwa. The Awamir in the area of Abu Dhabi were considered affiliated to the Bani Yas and frequently supported them in conflicts.[2] A large tribe, the Awamir originated in the steppes to the north of the Hadhramut,[2] settling in the north in a process of migration which took place over 500 years.[3] A subsection of the tribe, 'Afar, was linked to Dhafrah. Some 4,000 Awamir settled outside of Oman proper at the turn of the 20th century and of the whole tribe, numbered at the time as 10,000 strong, some 3,500 were nomadic Bedouin.[4]

J. G. Lorimer characterised the Awamir as "Reputed brave and warlike but crafty, treacherous and predatory; they are said to plunder indiscriminately all whom they meet..."[4]

Bani Yas affiliation
In 1848, Sheikh Saeed bin Tahnun Al Nahyan was spurred into action against the Wahhabis encamped in Buraimi, capturing his two forts back with the help of the Awamir. The Awamir formed part of the tribal confederacy force he then pulled together and used to clear the oasis and block a relieving army under Sa'ad bin Mutlaq. By 1850, Saeed's great tribal association had cleared Buraimi Oasis of Wahhabi forces. He subsequently accepted a stipend from the Sultan of Muscat for the defence of Buraimi.[5]

The Awamir supported Saeed's successor, Sheikh Zayed bin Khalifa Al Nahyan in his extended war with Qatar in the 1880s, a series of conflicts that secured the western border of Abu Dhabi.[6] By the 1920s, the Awamir were central to a number of conflicts between the tribes around Buraimi and Abu Dhabi town, fighting with the Manasir, Duru and Bani Qitab.[7]

Raiding
By the 1930s, the decline of pearling on the Trucial Coast had led to a general recession and the Awamir's raiding activities grew as demand for their camels and services as drivers dropped. The raids on Dubai alone were part of the general unrest (in a time of depression and poverty) felt by the people against their Ruler, Sheikh Saeed bin Maktoum Bin Hasher Al Maktoum, leading to the Majlis movement.[8] In 1931 alone several such incidents included raids on camel trains, on settlements and date groves and, in at least one case, sheer vandalism in retaliation against a ruler's punishment of them: they cut down 20 unripe date palms in Umm Al Quwain following an outbreak of looting.[9] This raiding led to open conflict between tribes and Abu Dhabi found itself called to account on behalf of its unruly subjects as raids led to open and bloody warfare between tribes. For the first time, the British were forced to intervene in matters of the interior and broker an agreement between Abu Dhabi and Dubai over their border and the terms of a peace between the tribes.[10]

The Awamir had long been in conflict with the Duru and in the 1940s, the ongoing conflict led the headman of the Bedouin Awamir, Salim bin Hamad bin Rakkad, to lead his people to Al Hasa in 1943. They returned in 1948, but in subsequent years were constantly drawn back to Hasa.[11] The bulk of the tribe remained at Buraimi and petitioned the Al Bu Falah for protection. One of Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan's first acts when he was appointed wali of Al Ain was to call for Salim bin Mussalam bin Hamm and appoint him as head of the Bedouin Awamir. The portion of the tribe which had moved south under Salim bin Hamad became Saudi citizens and this schism within the Awamir was later to form part of the territorial arguments put forward in the Buraimi Dispute.[11]

Settlement
By the 1950s, some 50 families of the Awamir had acquired date plantations in Buraimi but few settled in Liwa. Staunchly nomadic and focused on breeding and herding camels, the Awamir had no interests in the pearling beyond casual work on the boats[12] and remained essentially nomadic.

By 1968, some 1,721 members of the Awamir were identified in a census, many of whom had taken up employment with the oil companies.[11]


1968 Lebanese general election in Beirut I
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Lebanese general election, 1968 in Beirut I

March 24, 1968	
8 out of the 99 members of the Parliament of Lebanon ¡ú
 			
Leader	Pierre Gemayel	Movses Der Kaloustian	Michel Georges Sassine
Party	Kataeb Party	ARF	Independent
Seats after	3	3	2
Voting to elect eight members of the Lebanese parliament took place in the Beirut I district (one of three electoral districts in the city) on March 24, 1968, part of the national general election of that year.[1] The constituency had 98,439 eligible voters, out of whom 28,631 voted (29.59 percent, the lowest turn-out of all constituencies).[2][3] The elections in Beirut I passed smoothly without violent incidents.[1]

In Beirut I, which comprised the Christian parts of the city, had 3 Armenian Orthodox seats, 1 Armenian Catholic seat, 1 Greek Catholic seat, 1 Greek Orthodox seat, 1 Maronite seat and 1 Protestant seat (for more information about the Lebanese election system, see Elections in Lebanon).[1][4]

Two tickets competed against each other in the Beirut I constituency. One list was headed by the Kataeb Party chairman Pierre Gemayel and the other was head by Michel Georges Sassine. There were also four candidates outside of the two tickets.[1]

The Gemayel ticket won six of the eight seats, whilst the Sassine ticket won two.[1] The Kataeb Party ran a sophisticated and well-organized election campaign.[5] However considering that Beirut I was a stronghold of the Kataeb, it had been expected that Gemayel's candidates won win all the seats up for grabs. Instead two sitting parliamentarians on the Gemayel ticket were defeated. Possibly the fact that Armenian candidates were elected unopposed led to lower participation from Armenian voters (whose Armenian Revolutionary Federation was an ally of Kataeb), weakening the position of the Gemayel ticket.[1]


Contents
1	Armenian Orthodox seats
2	Armenian Catholic seat
3	Greek Catholic seat
4	Greek Orthodox seat
5	Maronite seat
6	Protestant seat
7	References
Armenian Orthodox seats
Gemayel's ticket had three Armenian Orthodox candidates, all of them were elected unopposed.[1] The three were affiliated to the Armenian Revolutionary Federation and were all incumbent parliamentarians; the 72-year-old Movses Der Kaloustian (the oldest parliamentarian in Lebanon at the time), Khatchig Babikian (lawyer and former minister) and Souren Khanamirian (businessman).[1][6]

Armenian Catholic seat
Joseph Chader was elected unopposed in the Armenian Catholic seat.[1] A lawyer by profession, Chader was member of parliament since 1951 and vice chairman of the Kataeb Party. He contested the election as a candidate on the Gemayel ticket.[1][6]

Greek Catholic seat
The Greek Catholic seat saw a clash between Antoine Sahnawi from the Gemayel ticket, Nasri Maalouf from the Sassine ticket and the independent candidate Sami Zuryaq. The prominent businessman Sahnawi, an incumbent parliamentarian since 1960 and former Minister of Post Office, was a member of the Democratic Front. Nasri Maalouf was a lawyer and journalist, and had previously served as parliamentarian and minister. He was technically an independent, but closely linked to the National Liberal Party. Nasri Maalouf obtained 14,087 votes, Antoine Sahnawi 12,485 votes and Sami Zurayq 226 votes.[1]

Greek Orthodox seat
In the Greek Orthodox seat Michel Georges Sassine confronted Fu'ad Butrus (an independent politician, lawyer by profession, incumbent parliamentarian and former minister contesting on the Gemayel ticket) and Joseph Lahoud of the National Liberal Party. Sassine was a prominent businessman who had tried to run for parliament in 1960. He was not affiliated with any political party. Sassine obtained 14,821 votes against 13,744 for Butrus and 1,116 for Lahoud.[1]

Maronite seat
The Sassine ticket had no Maronite candidate. However, the reign of the Kataeb strongman Pierre Gemayel was challenged by independent candidate Salim Wakim. Wakim, 35 years old, had tried to contest the 1964 elections as well but had only mustered nine votes at the time. This time Pierre Gemayel received 24,835 votes against 1,344 votes for Salim Wakim.[1]

Protestant seat
The candidate of the Gemayel ticket for the Protestant seat was the Kataeb Party member Samir Ishaq; a young businessman and American University of Beirut graduate.[1] An unknown name in politics, Ishaq had been nominated by the Political Bureau of the Kataeb Party just five weeks before the election.[7]

Sassine's Protestant candidate was Charles Sa'ad; 66 years old and parliamentarian since 1960. Sa'ad was a member of the Democratic Front. A third Protestant candidate was Yetvart Lushkhajian, an Armenian Protestant businessman vying for public office for the first time. Ishaq obtained 15,997 votes, followed by 11,302 for Sa'ad and 664 for Lushkhajian.[1]


Polish Society of War Veterans
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
Zwi?zek Kombatant¨®w RP i By?ych Wi??ni¨®w Politycznych (shield).png
Polish Society of War Veterans and Former Political Prisoners (Polish: Zwi?zek Kombatant¨®w RP i By?ych Wi??ni¨®w Politycznych) created in April 1990 (in place of ZBoWiD), is an official and the largest Polish Veterans association.

Membership may be granted to any Polish citizen who was an active duty member of the Polish military (including partisan, self-defence units, and Polish Underground State) in or during the war, campaign, or conflict, as well as to all survivors of German concentration camps and pro-Soviet political imprisonment in the communist era. The constitution also requires members to have not been discharged under any conditions other than honourable.

Current president of the Association is Colonel Henryk Strzelecki. Its headquarters are located in Warsaw at Aleje Ujazdowskie in the historic Rembieli¨½ski Palace. Society of War Veterans is an umbrella organisation with 43 regional chapters across Poland, as well as 2364 clubs. The Central Office publishes a monthly magazine called Polsce Wierni (Poland's Faithful).[1]


Lajtab¨¢ns¨¢g
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search

This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Banate of Leitha
Lajtab¨¢ns¨¢g
1921¨C1921
Flag of Leitha
Flag
{{{coat_alt}}}
Coat of arms
Map indicating present-day Burgenland in Austria, the region where the short-lived Hungarian occupied and governed Lajtab¨¢ns¨¢g existed.
Map indicating present-day Burgenland in Austria,
the region where the short-lived Hungarian occupied and governed Lajtab¨¢ns¨¢g existed.
Status	Unrecognized state
Capital	Oberwart
Government	Republic
Leaders	 
Historical era	Interwar period
? Established
October 4 1921
? Disestablished
November 5 1921
Preceded by	Succeeded by
	Kingdom of Hungary (1920¨C46)
First Austrian Republic	
Kingdom of Hungary (1920¨C46)	
Lajtab¨¢ns¨¢g or Banate of Leitha (German: Leitha-Banat) was a short-lived western Hungarian state in the region where the Austrian federal state of Burgenland now exists. It existed between October 4 and November 5, 1921, following the Treaty of Trianon and the departure of the rump Kingdom of Hungary's army and after the Sopron referendum was held in the area according to the Venice protocol.

The principal leaders of the state were P¨¢l Pr¨®nay, Count Gyula Ostenburg-Moravek and former Hungarian prime minister Istv¨¢n Friedrich. Its military was the Rongyos G¨¢rda ("Ragged Guards" or "Scrubby Guards"), recruited from former army soldiers, peasants and students devoted to retaining the region rather than surrender it to Austria.


David Creighton
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
David Creighton
Ontario MPP
In office
1875¨C1890
Preceded by	Thomas Scott
Succeeded by	James Cleland
Constituency	Grey North
Personal details
Born	April 1, 1843
Glasgow, Scotland
Died	November 7, 1917 (aged 74)
Toronto, Ontario
Political party	Conservative
Spouse(s)	Jane Elizabeth Kramer (m. 1873)Apache Hadoop
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Hadoop)
Jump to navigationJump to search
Apache Hadoop
Hadoop logo new.svg
Developer(s)	Apache Software Foundation
Initial release	April 1, 2006; 13 years ago[1]
Stable release	
3.1.1 / August 8, 2018[2]
Repository	
git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/hadoop.git
Edit this at Wikidata
Written in	Java
Operating system	Cross-platform
Type	Distributed file system
License	Apache License 2.0
Website	hadoop.apache.org
Apache Hadoop ( /h??du?p/) is a collection of open-source software utilities that facilitate using a network of many computers to solve problems involving massive amounts of data and computation. It provides a software framework for distributed storage and processing of big data using the MapReduce programming model. Originally designed for computer clusters built from commodity hardware[3]¡ªstill the common use¡ªit has also found use on clusters of higher-end hardware.[4][5] All the modules in Hadoop are designed with a fundamental assumption that hardware failures are common occurrences and should be automatically handled by the framework.[2]

The core of Apache Hadoop consists of a storage part, known as Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), and a processing part which is a MapReduce programming model. Hadoop splits files into large blocks and distributes them across nodes in a cluster. It then transfers packaged code into nodes to process the data in parallel. This approach takes advantage of data locality,[6] where nodes manipulate the data they have access to. This allows the dataset to be processed faster and more efficiently than it would be in a more conventional supercomputer architecture that relies on a parallel file system where computation and data are distributed via high-speed networking.[7][8]

The base Apache Hadoop framework is composed of the following modules:

Hadoop Common ¨C contains libraries and utilities needed by other Hadoop modules;
Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) ¨C a distributed file-system that stores data on commodity machines, providing very high aggregate bandwidth across the cluster;
Hadoop YARN ¨C introduced in 2012 is a platform responsible for managing computing resources in clusters and using them for scheduling users' applications;[9][10]
Hadoop MapReduce ¨C an implementation of the MapReduce programming model for large-scale data processing.
The term Hadoop is often used for both base modules and sub-modules and also the ecosystem,[11] or collection of additional software packages that can be installed on top of or alongside Hadoop, such as Apache Pig, Apache Hive, Apache HBase, Apache Phoenix, Apache Spark, Apache ZooKeeper, Cloudera Impala, Apache Flume, Apache Sqoop, Apache Oozie, and Apache Storm.[12]

Apache Hadoop's MapReduce and HDFS components were inspired by Google papers on MapReduce and Google File System.[13]

The Hadoop framework itself is mostly written in the Java programming language, with some native code in C and command line utilities written as shell scripts. Though MapReduce Java code is common, any programming language can be used with Hadoop Streaming to implement the map and reduce parts of the user's program.[14] Other projects in the Hadoop ecosystem expose richer user interfaces.


Contents
1	History
1.1	Timeline
2	Architecture
2.1	File systems
2.1.1	Hadoop distributed file system
2.1.2	Other file systems
2.2	JobTracker and TaskTracker: the MapReduce engine
2.2.1	Scheduling
2.2.1.1	Fair scheduler
2.2.1.2	Capacity scheduler
2.3	Difference between Hadoop 1 vs Hadoop 2 (YARN)
2.4	Difference between Hadoop 2 vs Hadoop 3
2.5	Other applications
3	Prominent use cases
4	Hadoop hosting in the cloud
4.1	On Microsoft Azure
4.2	On Amazon EC2/S3 services
4.3	On Amazon Elastic MapReduce
4.4	On CenturyLink Cloud (CLC)
4.5	On Google Cloud Platform
4.6	On SAP Cloud Platform
4.7	On Oracle Cloud Platform
5	Commercial support
5.1	Branding
6	Papers
7	See also
8	References
9	Bibliography
10	External links
History
According to its co-founders, Doug Cutting and Mike Cafarella, the genesis of Hadoop was the Google File System paper that was published in October 2003.[15][16] This paper spawned another one from Google ¨C "MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters".[17] Development started on the Apache Nutch project, but was moved to the new Hadoop subproject in January 2006.[18] Doug Cutting, who was working at Yahoo! at the time, named it after his son's toy elephant.[19] The initial code that was factored out of Nutch consisted of about 5,000 lines of code for HDFS and about 6,000 lines of code for MapReduce.

In March 2006, Owen O¡¯Malley was the first committer to add to the Hadoop project;[20] Hadoop 0.1.0 was released in April 2006.[21] It continues to evolve through contributions that are being made to the project.[22]

Timeline
Year	Month	Event	Ref.
2003	October	Google File System paper released	[23]
2004	December	MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters	[24]
2006	January	Hadoop subproject created with mailing lists, jira, and wiki	[25]
2006	January	Hadoop is born from Nutch 197	[26]
2006	February	NDFS+ MapReduce moved out of Apache Nutch to create Hadoop	[27]
2006	February	Owen O'Malley's first patch goes into Hadoop	[28]
2006	February	Hadoop is named after Cutting's son's yellow plush toy	[29]
2006	April	Hadoop 0.1.0 released	[30]
2006	April	Hadoop sorts 1.8 TB on 188 nodes in 47.9 hours	[27]
2006	May	Yahoo deploys 300 machine Hadoop cluster	[27]
2006	October	Yahoo Hadoop cluster reaches 600 machines	[27]
2007	April	Yahoo runs two clusters of 1,000 machines	[27]
2007	June	Only three companies on "Powered by Hadoop Page"	[31]
2007	October	First release of Hadoop that includes HBase	[32]
2007	October	Yahoo Labs creates Pig, and donates it to the ASF	[33]
2008	January	YARN JIRA opened	Yarn Jira (Mapreduce 279)
2008	January	20 companies on "Powered by Hadoop Page"	[31]
2008	February	Yahoo moves its web index onto Hadoop	[34]
2008	February	Yahoo! production search index generated by a 10,000-core Hadoop cluster	[27]
2008	March	First Hadoop Summit	[35]
2008	April	Hadoop world record fastest system to sort a terabyte of data. Running on a 910-node cluster, Hadoop sorted one terabyte in 209 seconds	[27]
2008	May	Hadoop wins TeraByte Sort (World Record sortbenchmark.org)	[36]
2008	July	Hadoop wins Terabyte Sort Benchmark	[37]
2008	October	Loading 10 TB/day in Yahoo clusters	[27]
2008	October	Cloudera, Hadoop distributor is founded	[38]
2008	November	Google MapReduce implementation sorted one terabyte in 68 seconds	[27]
2009	March	Yahoo runs 17 clusters with 24,000 machines	[27]
2009	April	Hadoop sorts a petabyte	[39]
2009	May	Yahoo! used Hadoop to sort one terabyte in 62 seconds	[27]
2009	June	Second Hadoop Summit	[40]
2009	July	Hadoop Core is renamed Hadoop Common	[41]
2009	July	MapR, Hadoop distributor founded	[42]
2009	July	HDFS now a separate subproject	[41]
2009	July	MapReduce now a separate subproject	[41]
2010	January	Kerberos support added to Hadoop	[43]
2010	May	Apache HBase Graduates	[44]
2010	June	Third Hadoop Summit	[45]
2010	June	Yahoo 4,000 nodes/70 petabytes	[46]
2010	June	Facebook 2,300 clusters/40 petabytes	[46]
2010	September	Apache Hive Graduates	[47]
2010	September	Apache Pig Graduates	[48]
2011	January	Apache Zookeeper Graduates	[49]
2011	January	Facebook, LinkedIn, eBay and IBM collectively contribute 200,000 lines of code	[50]
2011	March	Apache Hadoop takes top prize at Media Guardian Innovation Awards	[51]
2011	June	Rob Beardon and Eric Badleschieler spin Hortonworks out of Yahoo.	[52]
2011	June	Yahoo has 42K Hadoop nodes and hundreds of petabytes of storage	[52]
2011	June	Third Annual Hadoop Summit (1,700 attendees)	[53]
2011	October	Debate over which company had contributed more to Hadoop.	[50]
2012	January	Hadoop community moves to separate from MapReduce and replace with YARN	[29]
2012	June	San Jose Hadoop Summit (2,100 attendees)	[54]
2012	November	Apache Hadoop 1.0 Available	[41]
2013	March	Hadoop Summit ¨C Amsterdam (500 attendees)	[55]
2013	March	YARN deployed in production at Yahoo	[56]
2013	June	San Jose Hadoop Summit (2,700 attendees)	[57]
2013	October	Apache Hadoop 2.2 Available	[41]
2014	February	Apache Hadoop 2.3 Available	[41]
2014	February	Apache Spark top Level Apache Project	[58]
2014	April	Hadoop summit Amsterdam (750 attendees)	[59]
2014	June	Apache Hadoop 2.4 Available	[41]
2014	June	San Jose Hadoop Summit (3,200 attendees)	[60]
2014	August	Apache Hadoop 2.5 Available	[41]
2014	November	Apache Hadoop 2.6 Available	[41]
2015	April	Hadoop Summit Europe	[61]
2015	June	Apache Hadoop 2.7 Available	[41]
2017	March	Apache Hadoop 2.8 Available	[62]
2017	November	Apache Hadoop 2.9 Available	[63]
2017	December	Apache Hadoop 3.0 Available	[64]
2018	April	Apache Hadoop 3.1 Available	[65]
Architecture
See also: Hadoop Distributed File System, Apache HBase, and MapReduce
Hadoop consists of the Hadoop Common package, which provides file system and operating system level abstractions, a MapReduce engine (either MapReduce/MR1 or YARN/MR2)[66] and the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS). The Hadoop Common package contains the Java ARchive (JAR) files and scripts needed to start Hadoop.

For effective scheduling of work, every Hadoop-compatible file system should provide location awareness, which is the name of the rack, specifically the network switch where a worker node is. Hadoop applications can use this information to execute code on the node where the data is, and, failing that, on the same rack/switch to reduce backbone traffic. HDFS uses this method when replicating data for data redundancy across multiple racks. This approach reduces the impact of a rack power outage or switch failure; if any of these hardware failures occurs, the data will remain available.[67]

Hadoop cluster
A multi-node Hadoop cluster
A small Hadoop cluster includes a single master and multiple worker nodes. The master node consists of a Job Tracker, Task Tracker, NameNode, and DataNode. A slave or worker node acts as both a DataNode and TaskTracker, though it is possible to have data-only and compute-only worker nodes. These are normally used only in nonstandard applications.[68]

Hadoop requires Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 1.6 or higher. The standard startup and shutdown scripts require that Secure Shell (SSH) be set up between nodes in the cluster.[69]

In a larger cluster, HDFS nodes are managed through a dedicated NameNode server to host the file system index, and a secondary NameNode that can generate snapshots of the namenode's memory structures, thereby preventing file-system corruption and loss of data. Similarly, a standalone JobTracker server can manage job scheduling across nodes. When Hadoop MapReduce is used with an alternate file system, the NameNode, secondary NameNode, and DataNode architecture of HDFS are replaced by the file-system-specific equivalents.

File systems
Hadoop distributed file system

This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS) is a distributed, scalable, and portable file system written in Java for the Hadoop framework. Some consider it to instead be a data store due to its lack of POSIX compliance,[70] but it does provide shell commands and Java application programming interface (API) methods that are similar to other file systems.[71] A Hadoop is divided into HDFS and MapReduce. HDFS is used for storing the data and MapReduce is used for the Processing the Data. HDFS has five services as follows:

1. Name Node

2. Secondary Name Node

3. Job tracker

4. Data Node

5. Task Tracker

Top three are Master Services/Daemons/Nodes and bottom two are Slave Services. Master Services can communicate with each other and in the same way Slave services can communicate with each other. Name Node is a master node and Data node is its corresponding Slave node and can talk with each other.

Name Node: HDFS consists of only one Name Node we call it as Master Node which can track the files, manage the file system and has the meta data and the whole data in it. To be particular Name node contains the details of the No. of blocks, Locations at what data node the data is stored and where the replications are stored and other details. As we have only one Name Node we call it as Single Point Failure. It has Direct connect with the client.

Data Node: A Data Node stores data in it as the blocks. This is also known as the slave node and it stores the actual data into HDFS which is responsible for the client to read and write. These are slave daemons. Every Data node sends a Heartbeat message to the Name node every 3 seconds and conveys that it is alive. In this way when Name Node does not receive a heartbeat from a data node for 2 minutes, it will take that data node as dead and starts the process of block replications on some other Data node.

Secondary Name Node: This is only to take care of the checkpoints of the file system metadata which is in the Name Node. This is also known as the checkpoint Node. It is helper Node for the Name Node.

Job Tracker: Basically Job Tracker will be useful in the Processing the data. Job Tracker receives the requests for Map Reduce execution from the client. Job tracker talks to the Name node to know about the location of the data like Job Tracker will request the Name Node for the processing the data. Name node in response gives the Meta data to job tracker.

Task Tracker: It is the Slave Node for the Job Tracker and it will take the task from the Job Tracker. And also it receives code from the Job Tracker. Task Tracker will take the code and apply on the file. The process of applying that code on the file is known as Mapper.[72]

Hadoop cluster has nominally a single namenode plus a cluster of datanodes, although redundancy options are available for the namenode due to its criticality. Each datanode serves up blocks of data over the network using a block protocol specific to HDFS. The file system uses TCP/IP sockets for communication. Clients use remote procedure calls (RPC) to communicate with each other.

HDFS stores large files (typically in the range of gigabytes to terabytes[73]) across multiple machines. It achieves reliability by replicating the data across multiple hosts, and hence theoretically does not require redundant array of independent disks (RAID) storage on hosts (but to increase input-output (I/O) performance some RAID configurations are still useful). With the default replication value, 3, data is stored on three nodes: two on the same rack, and one on a different rack. Data nodes can talk to each other to rebalance data, to move copies around, and to keep the replication of data high. HDFS is not fully POSIX-compliant, because the requirements for a POSIX file-system differ from the target goals of a Hadoop application. The trade-off of not having a fully POSIX-compliant file-system is increased performance for data throughput and support for non-POSIX operations such as Append.[74]

In May 2012, high-availability capabilities were added to HDFS,[75] letting the main metadata server called the NameNode manually fail-over onto a backup. The project has also started developing automatic fail-overs.

The HDFS file system includes a so-called secondary namenode, a misleading term that some might incorrectly interpret as a backup namenode when the primary namenode goes offline. In fact, the secondary namenode regularly connects with the primary namenode and builds snapshots of the primary namenode's directory information, which the system then saves to local or remote directories. These checkpointed images can be used to restart a failed primary namenode without having to replay the entire journal of file-system actions, then to edit the log to create an up-to-date directory structure. Because the namenode is the single point for storage and management of metadata, it can become a bottleneck for supporting a huge number of files, especially a large number of small files. HDFS Federation, a new addition, aims to tackle this problem to a certain extent by allowing multiple namespaces served by separate namenodes. Moreover, there are some issues in HDFS such as small file issues, scalability problems, Single Point of Failure (SPoF), and bottlenecks in huge metadata requests. One advantage of using HDFS is data awareness between the job tracker and task tracker. The job tracker schedules map or reduce jobs to task trackers with an awareness of the data location. For example: if node A contains data (a, b, c) and node X contains data (x, y, z), the job tracker schedules node A to perform map or reduce tasks on (a, b, c) and node X would be scheduled to perform map or reduce tasks on (x, y, z). This reduces the amount of traffic that goes over the network and prevents unnecessary data transfer. When Hadoop is used with other file systems, this advantage is not always available. This can have a significant impact on job-completion times as demonstrated with data-intensive jobs.[76]

HDFS was designed for mostly immutable files and may not be suitable for systems requiring concurrent write operations.[74]

HDFS can be mounted directly with a Filesystem in Userspace (FUSE) virtual file system on Linux and some other Unix systems.

File access can be achieved through the native Java API, the Thrift API (generates a client in a number of languages e.g. C++, Java, Python, PHP, Ruby, Erlang, Perl, Haskell, C#, Cocoa, Smalltalk, and OCaml), the command-line interface, the HDFS-UI web application over HTTP, or via 3rd-party network client libraries.[77]

HDFS is designed for portability across various hardware platforms and for compatibility with a variety of underlying operating systems. The HDFS design introduces portability limitations that result in some performance bottlenecks, since the Java implementation cannot use features that are exclusive to the platform on which HDFS is running.[78] Due to its widespread integration into enterprise-level infrastructure, monitoring HDFS performance at scale has become an increasingly important issue. Monitoring end-to-end performance requires tracking metrics from datanodes, namenodes, and the underlying operating system.[79] There are currently several monitoring platforms to track HDFS performance, including Hortonworks, Cloudera, and Datadog.

Other file systems
Hadoop works directly with any distributed file system that can be mounted by the underlying operating system by simply using a file:// URL; however, this comes at a price ¨C the loss of locality. To reduce network traffic, Hadoop needs to know which servers are closest to the data, information that Hadoop-specific file system bridges can provide.

In May 2011, the list of supported file systems bundled with Apache Hadoop were:

HDFS: Hadoop's own rack-aware file system.[80] This is designed to scale to tens of petabytes of storage and runs on top of the file systems of the underlying operating systems.
FTP file system: This stores all its data on remotely accessible FTP servers.
Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service) object storage: This is targeted at clusters hosted on the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud server-on-demand infrastructure. There is no rack-awareness in this file system, as it is all remote.
Windows Azure Storage Blobs (WASB) file system: This is an extension of HDFS that allows distributions of Hadoop to access data in Azure blob stores without moving the data permanently into the cluster.
A number of third-party file system bridges have also been written, none of which are currently in Hadoop distributions. However, some commercial distributions of Hadoop ship with an alternative file system as the default ¨C specifically IBM and MapR.

In 2009, IBM discussed running Hadoop over the IBM General Parallel File System.[81] The source code was published in October 2009.[82]
In April 2010, Parascale published the source code to run Hadoop against the Parascale file system.[83]
In April 2010, Appistry released a Hadoop file system driver for use with its own CloudIQ Storage product.[84]
In June 2010, HP discussed a location-aware IBRIX Fusion file system driver.[85]
In May 2011, MapR Technologies Inc. announced the availability of an alternative file system for Hadoop, MapR FS, which replaced the HDFS file system with a full random-access read/write file system.
JobTracker and TaskTracker: the MapReduce engine
Main article: MapReduce
Atop the file systems comes the MapReduce Engine, which consists of one JobTracker, to which client applications submit MapReduce jobs. The JobTracker pushes work to available TaskTracker nodes in the cluster, striving to keep the work as close to the data as possible. With a rack-aware file system, the JobTracker knows which node contains the data, and which other machines are nearby. If the work cannot be hosted on the actual node where the data resides, priority is given to nodes in the same rack. This reduces network traffic on the main backbone network. If a TaskTracker fails or times out, that part of the job is rescheduled. The TaskTracker on each node spawns a separate Java virtual machine (JVM) process to prevent the TaskTracker itself from failing if the running job crashes its JVM. A heartbeat is sent from the TaskTracker to the JobTracker every few minutes to check its status. The Job Tracker and TaskTracker status and information is exposed by Jetty and can be viewed from a web browser.

Known limitations of this approach are:

The allocation of work to TaskTrackers is very simple. Every TaskTracker has a number of available slots (such as "4 slots"). Every active map or reduce task takes up one slot. The Job Tracker allocates work to the tracker nearest to the data with an available slot. There is no consideration of the current system load of the allocated machine, and hence its actual availability.
If one TaskTracker is very slow, it can delay the entire MapReduce job ¨C especially towards the end, when everything can end up waiting for the slowest task. With speculative execution enabled, however, a single task can be executed on multiple slave nodes.
Scheduling
By default Hadoop uses FIFO scheduling, and optionally 5 scheduling priorities to schedule jobs from a work queue.[86] In version 0.19 the job scheduler was refactored out of the JobTracker, while adding the ability to use an alternate scheduler (such as the Fair scheduler or the Capacity scheduler, described next).[87]

Fair scheduler
The fair scheduler was developed by Facebook.[88] The goal of the fair scheduler is to provide fast response times for small jobs and Quality of service (QoS) for production jobs. The fair scheduler has three basic concepts.[89]

Jobs are grouped into pools.
Each pool is assigned a guaranteed minimum share.
Excess capacity is split between jobs.
By default, jobs that are uncategorized go into a default pool. Pools have to specify the minimum number of map slots, reduce slots, as well as a limit on the number of running jobs.

Capacity scheduler
The capacity scheduler was developed by Yahoo. The capacity scheduler supports several features that are similar to those of the fair scheduler.[90]

Queues are allocated a fraction of the total resource capacity.
Free resources are allocated to queues beyond their total capacity.
Within a queue, a job with a high level of priority has access to the queue's resources.
There is no preemption once a job is running.

Difference between Hadoop 1 vs Hadoop 2 (YARN)
The biggest difference between Hadoop 1 and Hadoop 2 is the addition of YARN (Yet Another Resource Negotiator), which replaced the MapReduce engine in the first version of Hadoop. YARN strives to allocate resources to various applications effectively. It runs two d?mons, which take care of two different tasks: the resource manager, which does job tracking and resource allocation to applications, the application master, which monitors progress of the execution.

Difference between Hadoop 2 vs Hadoop 3
There are important features provided by Hadoop 3. For example, while there is one single namenode in Hadoop 2, Hadoop 3 enables having multiple name nodes, which solves the single point of failure problem.

In Hadoop 3, there are containers working in principle of Docker, which reduces time spent on application development.

One of the biggest changes is that Hadoop 3 decreases storage overhead with erasure coding.

Also, Hadoop 3 permits usage of GPU hardware within the cluster, which is a very substantial benefit to execute deep learning algorithms on a Hadoop cluster.[91]

Other applications
The HDFS file system is not restricted to MapReduce jobs. It can be used for other applications, many of which are under development at Apache. The list includes the HBase database, the Apache Mahout machine learning system, and the Apache Hive Data Warehouse system. Hadoop can, in theory, be used for any sort of work that is batch-oriented rather than real-time, is very data-intensive, and benefits from parallel processing of data. It can also be used to complement a real-time system, such as lambda architecture, Apache Storm, Flink and Spark Streaming.[92]

As of October 2009, commercial applications of Hadoop[93] included:-

log and/or clickstream analysis of various kinds
marketing analytics
machine learning and/or sophisticated data mining
image processing
processing of XML messages
web crawling and/or text processing
general archiving, including of relational/tabular data, e.g. for compliance
Prominent use cases
On February 19, 2008, Yahoo! Inc. launched what they claimed was the world's largest Hadoop production application. The Yahoo! Search Webmap is a Hadoop application that runs on a Linux cluster with more than 10,000 cores and produced data that was used in every Yahoo! web search query.[94] There are multiple Hadoop clusters at Yahoo! and no HDFS file systems or MapReduce jobs are split across multiple data centers. Every Hadoop cluster node bootstraps the Linux image, including the Hadoop distribution. Work that the clusters perform is known to include the index calculations for the Yahoo! search engine. In June 2009, Yahoo! made the source code of its Hadoop version available to the open-source community.[95]

In 2010, Facebook claimed that they had the largest Hadoop cluster in the world with 21 PB of storage.[96] In June 2012, they announced the data had grown to 100 PB[97] and later that year they announced that the data was growing by roughly half a PB per day.[98]

As of 2013, Hadoop adoption had become widespread: more than half of the Fortune 50 companies used Hadoop.[99]

Hadoop hosting in the cloud
Hadoop can be deployed in a traditional onsite datacenter as well as in the cloud.[100] The cloud allows organizations to deploy Hadoop without the need to acquire hardware or specific setup expertise.[101] Vendors who currently have an offer for the cloud include Microsoft, Amazon, CenturyLink Cloud , IBM,[102] Google, SAP,[103], Cloudera, and Oracle.[104]

On Microsoft Azure
Azure HDInsight[105] is a service that deploys Hadoop on Microsoft Azure. HDInsight uses Hortonworks HDP and was jointly developed for HDI with Hortonworks. HDI allows programming extensions with .NET (in addition to Java). HDInsight also supports the creation of Hadoop clusters using Linux with Ubuntu.[105] By deploying HDInsight in the cloud, organizations can spin up the number of nodes they want and only get charged for the compute and storage that is used.[105] Hortonworks implementations can also move data from the on-premises datacenter to the cloud for backup, development/test, and bursting scenarios.[105] It is also possible to run Cloudera or Hortonworks Hadoop clusters on Azure Virtual Machines.

On Amazon EC2/S3 services
It is possible to run Hadoop on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3).[106] As an example, in 2007 The New York Times used 100 Amazon EC2 instances and a Hadoop application to process 4 TB of raw image TIFF data (stored in S3) into 11 million finished PDFs in the space of 24 hours at a computation cost of about $240 (not including bandwidth).[107]

There is support for the S3 object store in the Apache Hadoop releases, though this is below what one expects from a traditional POSIX filesystem. Specifically, operations such as rename() and delete() on directories are not atomic, and can take time proportional to the number of entries and the amount of data in them.

On Amazon Elastic MapReduce
Elastic MapReduce (EMR)[108] was introduced by Amazon.com in April 2009. Provisioning of the Hadoop cluster, running and terminating jobs, and handling data transfer between EC2 (VM) and S3 (Object Storage) are automated by Elastic MapReduce. Apache Hive, which is built on top of Hadoop for providing data warehouse services, is also offered in Elastic MapReduce.[109] Support for using Spot Instances[110] was later added in August 2011.[111] Elastic MapReduce is fault-tolerant for slave failures,[112] and it is recommended to only run the Task Instance Group on spot instances to take advantage of the lower cost while maintaining availability.[113]

On CenturyLink Cloud (CLC)
CenturyLink Cloud[114] offers Hadoop via both a managed and un-managed model.[115] CLC also offers customers several managed Cloudera Blueprints, the newest managed service in the CenturyLink Cloud big data portfolio, which also includes Cassandra and MongoDB solutions.[116]

On Google Cloud Platform
There are multiple ways to run the Hadoop ecosystem on Google Cloud Platform ranging from self-managed to Google-managed.[117]

Google Cloud Dataproc: a managed Spark and Hadoop service[118]
command line tools (bdutil): a collection of shell scripts to manually create and manage Spark and Hadoop clusters[119]
third party Hadoop distributions:
Cloudera ¨C using the Cloudera Director Plugin for Google Cloud Platform[120]
Hortonworks ¨C using bdutil support for Hortonworks HDP[121]
MapR ¨C using bdutil support for MapR[122]
Google also offers connectors for using other Google Cloud Platform products with Hadoop, such as a Google Cloud Storage connector for using Google Cloud Storage and a Google BigQuery connector for using Google BigQuery.

On SAP Cloud Platform
The SAP Cloud Platform Big Data Services provide a performance-driven and robust big data framework using Apache Hadoop and Spark.

On Oracle Cloud Platform
Hadoop is available on Oracle Cloud through the Oracle Big Data Cloud. It provides big data services and deployment models. Big Data Cloud Service and Big Data SQL Cloud Service can be combined with Oracle's analytics platform. These services can be deployed in Public Cloud and in Hybrid Cloud as Cloud At Customer.

Commercial support
A number of companies offer commercial implementations or support for Hadoop.[123]

Branding
The Apache Software Foundation has stated that only software officially released by the Apache Hadoop Project can be called Apache Hadoop or Distributions of Apache Hadoop.[124] The naming of products and derivative works from other vendors and the term "compatible" are somewhat controversial within the Hadoop developer community.[125]

Papers
Some papers influenced the birth and growth of Hadoop and big data processing. Some of these are:

Jeffrey Dean, Sanjay Ghemawat (2004) MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters, Google. This paper inspired Doug Cutting to develop an open-source implementation of the Map-Reduce framework. He named it Hadoop, after his son's toy elephant.
Michael Franklin, Alon Halevy, David Maier (2005) From Databases to Dataspaces: A New Abstraction for Information Management. The authors highlight the need for storage systems to accept all data formats and to provide APIs for data access that evolve based on the storage system's understanding of the data.
Fay Chang et al. (2006) Bigtable: A Distributed Storage System for Structured Data, Google.
Robert Kallman et al. (2008) H-store: a high-performance, distributed main memory transaction processing system
Occupation	Newspaper editor
David Creighton (April 1, 1843 ¨C November 7, 1917) was an Ontario businessman and political figure. He represented Grey North in the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1875 to 1890 as a Conservative member.

He was born in Glasgow, Scotland in 1843; his parents were of Irish descent. Creighton came to Canada West with his family in 1855. He became editor and publisher of the Owen Sound Times in 1864, retiring in 1896. In 1873, he married Jane Elizabeth Kramer. He was first elected to the assembly in an 1875 by-election held after the election of Thomas Scott was declared invalid. He helped establish the newspaper The Empire at Toronto, which operated from 1887 to 1895. In 1895, Creighton was appointed assistant Receiver-General at Toronto.

The community of Creighton Mine, now a ghost town in Greater Sudbury, was named after him. He died in 1917.[1][2]


